ARTICLE V 
SUITS FOR TAX COLLECTIONS, VIOLATIONS, FINES, INTEREST & 
PENALTIES 
SECTION 501 – REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE 
 
The remedies provided in Section 502 or Section 505 are not mutually exclusive.  The 
utilization by the Treasurer of one remedy does not preclude utilization of the other. 
 
Moreover, use of either or both of the remedies provided in  these Sections does not 
preclude the use by the City of Pittsburgh of any other legal or administrative procedure  
which can bring about compliance by the Producer with the provisions of Chapter 241 of 
the Pittsburgh Code and these regulations. 
 
Once it has been determined that that a Producer owes a tax, the Treasurer will take all 
actions legally permitted to enforce its claim. Such action may include obtaining additional 
information, auditing Producer records, entering into a settlement of the disputed amount 
of the tax, or obtaining liens on the Producer’s property, wage attachments, levies, and 
seizures and sales of the taxpayer’s property in appropriate circumstances. The Treasurer 
may enter into a written agreement with the Producer for payment of the tax in installments 
if the Treasurer believes that such an agreement will facilitate collection. The Treasurer 
may also impose interest and applicable penalties on the tax due, and may seek cri minal 
charges in appropriate circumstances.   
 
SECTION 502 – SUITS FOR RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES 
 
The Treasurer may sue in the name of the City of  Pittsburgh, in law or in equity, for the  
recovery of those taxes due and unpaid under the provisions of the Amusement Tax, to 
compel the production of records or to enforce any other provisions of the law.  Such suits 
may also be brought against Responsible Persons. 
 
SECTION 503 - LIMITATIONS 
 
a. The following periods of limitations shall apply to suits for collection of taxes. 
 
1. When a return has been filed but no tax paid, any suit brought to recover the tax 
due and unpaid shall be filed within three (3) years after the return was due or 
filed, whichever is later. Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to file 
suit for the collection of taxes. 
 
2. In the case of a deficiency assessment, suit shall be filed within three (3) years 
after the assessment has been made. 
 
b. The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) shall not prevent the institution of a suit 
for the collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases: 
 
1. When no return was filed, there is no limitation. 
 
2. When the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation. 
 3. When there is an understatement of tax liability of twenty-five (25%) or more, and 
not due to fraud, suit must be begun within six (6) years. 
 
c. A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the due date. 
 
SECTION 504 – PENALTY AND INTEREST 
 
a. Producers must collect the tax imposed herein and shall be liable to the City of 
Pittsburgh for the payment of the tax. If, however, any Producer shall fail to make 
any report and payment as herein required a penalty at the rate of five (5%) percent 
per month for each month or a fraction of a whole month on the amount of tax and 
interest of one (1%) percent per month for each month or fraction of a whole month 
during the period in which the tax remains unpaid shall be added to the tax.  In no 
event shall the interest rate assessed exceed the maximum rate allowed by the 
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act, 53 P.S. 7143, or applicable law. 
 
b. There is no limit, or cut off point, for applying penalty and interest 
 
c. Penalty and Interest on Deficiency Assessment. 
 
d. On any additional tax determined to be due as a result of a deficiency assessment, 
penalty and interest will be assessed from the day the tax should have been paid to 
the date of payment.  Penalty and interest is calculated as described above in the 
applicable portion of Section 504 (a). 
 
e. Where suit is brought for the recovery of such tax, the person liable therefore shall, 
in addition, be liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein 
imposed. Once due and owing, penalty and interest become part of the tax and 
shall be collected as such. A person’s belief that no tax is due and owing, or the 
failure of any person to receive or obtain the forms required for making the returns 
required under the City Code is not a valid defense to the imposition of penalties 
herein for violation.  Good faith shall not be a defense to the imposition of penalty. 
 
SECTION 505 – FINES AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE 
PROVISIONS OF TITLE TWO, PITTSBURGH CODE 
 
a. Violations – No person shall: 
 
1. Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any declaration or file a return required under the 
City Code. 
2. Refuse to permit the Treasurer or his/her designee to examine the books, records 
or accounts of any business, taxable or otherwise, to determine liability. 
3. Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return or attempt to do anything to 
avoid full disclosure of the amount of tax due to avoid payment in whole or in 
part, of the Amusement Tax. 
4. Divulge information, which is confidential under Chapter 201.06 of the City Code. 
5. Fail to make any payment when it is due. b. In addition to any other penalties or enforcement proceedings provided for by 
ordinance for the collection and enforcement of taxes: 
1. Any person who willfully fails or refuses to appear before the Treasurer or his/her 
agent in person with the employer’s books, records or accounts for examination 
when required under the provisions of Title Two of the City Code to do so, or who 
willfully refuses to permit inspection of the books, records or accounts of any 
amusement in the person’s custody or control when the right to make such 
inspection by the Treasurer or his/her agent is requested, shall be guilty of a 
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more 
than five hundred dollars ($500) or to a term of imprisonment of not more than six 
months, or both. 
 
2. The fines and terms of imprisonment, imposed under this Section shall be in 
addition to any other relief granted to the City of Pittsburgh of a monetary nature 
under the provisions of this Article. 
 
3. Each and every day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense 
for which a fine may be imposed. 
 
SECTION 506 – PERSONAL LIABILITY OF RESPONSIBLE PERSONS 
 
Because the Amusement Tax is collected from Patrons, the Amusement Tax is not the 
property of the Producer but instead is held in trust for the benefit of the City.  Any 
Amusement Tax collected from patrons or deemed included in the Established Price paid 
by Patrons shall be considered trust fund taxes held for the benefit of the City.  Should the 
Producer fail to timely remit the Amusement Tax due to the City, the Treasurer may assess 
and collect any unpaid Amusement Tax directly from any Responsible Person or from the 
Producer, or both .  A Responsible  Person can show he is not liable for any collected 
Amusement Tax if he shows the Amusement Tax has been properly refunded to the Patrons 
who paid the tax .  If the Producer uses trust fund taxes to pay a lawful obligation of the 
Producer, the payee of such  funds shall not be considered a Respo nsible Person, unless 
the payee acts in bad faith or has direct knowledge of the breach of trust.  
 
If there are multiple Responsible Persons for a Producer, each Responsible Person shall 
have joint and several liabili ty for the unremitted Amusement Tax.  However, in no event 
may the Treasurer collect more from the Responsible Persons and the Producer in total 
than the Producer owes the City. 
 
Only the Amusement Tax shall be considered a trust fund asset.  Penalties and  interest 
assessed against the Provider, as opposed penalties and interest assessed against the 
Responsible Person directly, shall not be consider trust funds monies.   
 
In an Article VI action, a Responsible Person shall not be able to challenge the Amusement 
Tax calculation derived from an assessment against the Producer once that assessment 
against the Producer has become final.   
 