INSTITUTION TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE II 
RETURNS 

Section 201. — Filing Return. 
(a) Except as to new business, both the tax return and payment of the tax 
are due on April 15th of every year. 
(b) Forms may be obtained from the City Treasurer, City-County Building, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219. Failure to receive the forms will not excuse a taxpayer 
for failure to file his return. 
(c) The return must be filed with the City Treasurer, City-County Building, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219. 
(d) If the taxpayer is an individual, he shall sign the return.  If the taxpayer is 
a corporation or unincorporated entity, a Director, President, Trustee or Officer may 
sign the return. 
(e) If a  taxpayer  maintains  more  than  one  location  in  Pittsburgh,  he  is 
required to  file  only  one  (1) return  and  may  include  therein  the  receipts  from 
transactions occurring in all  his locations in Pittsburgh.  Where one (1) return covers 
more than one (1) location,  a schedule shall be attached to the return showing the 
various locations at which the taxpayer conducts business in Pittsburgh. 
Section 202. — Payment of Tax. 
Payment of tax may be made in cash, or by check or money order drawn to the order 
of the Treasurer of the City of Pittsburgh. Cash payments must be made only to a 
cashier in the  Department  of  Treasurer,  City-County  Building,  Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. 
Section 203.—Tax Rate. 
The rate of tax is six (6) mills on each dollar of annual receipts. (Six mills equals $6.00 
per $1,000 or 6/10 of 1%).  In no event may the rate of tax on proprietors of restaurants 
and other places where food, drink and  refreshments are served exceed two (2) mills 
on each dollar of annual receipts.  53 P.S. § 6924.311(2).  (Two mills equals $2.00 per 
$1,000 or 2/10 of 1%). 
Section 204. – Penalties and Interest. 
If the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month shall 
be added to the amount of the tax. In addition, a penalty of one-half of one 
percent ( 0.5%) of the amount of the unpaid tax or each month or fraction thereof, 
during which the tax remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. 
