INSTITUTION TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Section 101. — Definitions. As used in this Ordinance, unless the context dearly 
indicates a different meaning, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning 
set forth below: 
(a) “City" - the City of Pittsburgh.
(b) “Exempt Institutions ” the following Institutions are exempt from the
Institution and Service Privilege Tax: 
(1) Corporations organized under an Act of Congress which are
instrumentalities of the United States , including any entity described in 26 U .S.C. § 
501(l); 
(2) The United States, any S tate or political subdivision thereof, any
authority of the state or local government, any elementary or secondary school within 
the City (public or private), and any federal, state, or municipal pension plan; 
(3) Any Institution of Purely Public charity, under 10 P.S. § 371, that
provides the evidence required by 10 P.S. § 376(a); 
(4) Any insurance company regulated by the Pennsylvania Insurance
Department; 
(5) Any utility regulated by the Pennsylvania Utility Commission;
(6) Any voluntary employee’s beneficiary association described in 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)( 9), or a ny qualified pension or retirement plan or trust  of a private 
employer or a multiemployer plan or trust; including any qualified plan or trust 
described under; 26 U.S. C. § 501(c)(22); 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(24); or 26 U.S.C. § § 
501(c)(25)(C)(i), (ii) or (iii); 
(7) Any regulated financial institution under the Tax Reform Code of
1971, 72 P.S. § 7401(6); and. 
(8) Any organization exempt from tax under 26 U.S.C. 501, which is
not listed in the classes of Taxable Institutions under Section 101(e) of these 
Regulations. 
(c) "Gross Receipts" - cash, credits, property of any kind or nature received
in or allocable to the City of Pittsburgh from an y Institution by reason of any S ervice 
rendered in the City, without deduction therefrom on account of property sold, materials 
used, labor, service, or other cost, interest or discount paid, or any other expense. 
(1) “Gross Receipts" shall include payments from insurance or other
third-party payments for the cost of Service; 
(2) “Gross Receipts” shall include payments for Service rendered to
affiliates or subsidiaries. 
(3) “Gross Receipts” shall include any payment, income, grants, or
other aid from federal, state or local governments, including the Medicare and Medicaid 
Programs as well as Pennsylvania General Assistance.   (4) “Gross Receipts” shall exclude receipts subject to the City
Mercantile License Tax, the City Business Privilege Tax, the Earned Income Tax, or 
any taxes collected as an agent for any government (such as sales taxes). At this time, 
the City does not collect any Mercantile License Tax or Business Privilege Tax. 
(5) “Gross Receipts” shall exclude membership fees, dues of the
members of the Institution, voluntary or charitable contributions unrelated to individual 
service or assessments which fall equally upon all members.   Local Tax Enabling Act, 
53 P.S. § 6924.301.1(f)(7).   However, individual charges for service  to a member or 
non-member of an Institution are not membership fees but Gross Receipts subject to 
Tax.  
(6) Donations, dues, and receipts associated with religious services
received by religious organizations, are excluded from “Gross Receipts.”  Non-religious 
activities of religious organizations, i.e. bingo, bazaars, etc. are excluded from “Gross 
Receipts” unless the organizers and/or operators of such activities are paid for 
rendering such services. 
(7) “Gross Receipts” shall exclude receipts attributab le to activities
sponsored and conducted solely and completely by and for the entity by unpaid 
volunteers. 
(8) “Gross Receipts” shall exclude receipts of Exempt Institutions.
(9) “Gross Receipts” shall exclude any receipts which the City is
prohibiting from taxing by reason of federal law, the Constitution of the United States, 
or the laws Commonwealth.  Any person making such as claim shall provide on its tax 
return a short citation to applicable case or statutory law that is the basis for the 
exemption claim. 
(10) “Gross Receipts” that are excluded from Tax are called “ Exempt
Receipts.” 
(d) "Person" - any foundation, partnership, corporation,  charitable trust,
limited liability company,  unincorporated association or any other organization 
operating under a non-profit charter or organized as a non-profit charter or organized 
as a non-profit entity, which provides Service to the public or to any select or limited 
number thereof.  Examples of entities organized as a non -profit entity include, non -
profit corporations formed under the Non-Profit Corporation Law of 1988, 15 Pa.C.S. 
§ 5101, or any predecessor or successor law, or the Pennsylvania Uniform
Unincorporated Nonprofit Association Law, 15 Pa.C.S. § 9111, or any predecessor or
successor law.
(1) The word “person”  includes any incorporated or unincorporated
entity, trust, or foundation, which provides a taxable Service, which is exempt from the 
Corporate Net Income tax under 72 P.S. § 7401(1)3 and § 7401(1)4(i), and which is a 
member of one of following classes of non-profit entities described under 26 U.S.C. § 
501: 
(i) corporations or other organizations exempt under 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) (such as religious, charitable, scientific,
or sporting organizations);(ii) organizations that would qualify for exemption under 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3) but are excused from applying for
recognition under 26 U.S.C. § 508(c)(1)(A) or § 508(c)(2)
(such as some religious organizations);
(iii) civic leagues , public advocacy,  or social welfare
organizations exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(4);
(iv) labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations exempt
under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(5);
(v) business leagues, chambers of commerce, boards of trade
(but expressly excluding professional football leagues)
exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(6);
(vi) social clubs (including sports, recreation, golf, exercise,
and country clubs) exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(7);
(vii) fraternal benefit societies, orders or associations exempt
under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(8);
(viii) domestic fraternal organizations exempt under 26 U.S.C.
§ 501(c)(10);
(ix) cemeteries exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(13);
(x) veterans organization s exempt under 26 U.S.C. §
501(c)(19) or 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(23);
(xi) religious and apostolic organizations exempt  under 26
U.S.C. § 501(d);
(xii) cooperative hospital service organizations exempt under
26 U.S.C. § 501(e); and
(xiii) cooperative service organizations operating educational
organizations exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(f).
(2) Whenever used in any pro visions prescribing a fine or penalty,
the word "person" as applied to partnerships shall mean the partners thereof; as 
applied to corporations and  unincorporated associations shall mean the officers 
thereof; as applied to foundations shall mean the trustees thereof.  
(3) The word “person” shall not include any Institution of Purely Public
Charity that is recognized as such under 10 P.S. § 371.  The receipt of a sales tax 
exemption issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue is evidence that the 
person is an Institution of Purely Public Charity.   10 P.S. § 376(a).  An entity that is 
merely affiliated with an Institution of Purely Public Charity is not itself exempt unless 
that entity is itself recognized as an Institution of Purely Public Charity under 10 P.S. § 
371. 
(4) The word “person” shall not include a natural person, an estate of
a decedent, or an entity subject to Corporate Net Income Tax, as set forth in the Tax 
Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. § 7401, et. seq. (e) "Service" - carrying on or exercising within the City of Pittsburgh,
medical, educational, beneficial, social, recreational, vocational, or any other type of 
service for which a charge is made, as a non-profit entity and which is not a business 
subject to the City Business Privilege Tax .  A Service does not include the sale or 
rental of personal property.  Such Service, when provided by a Taxable Institution, is 
an “Institutional Service.” 
(f) "Taxable Institution" - any person, organization, foundation,
corporation or unincorporated associat ion operating under a non -profit charter or 
recognized as a non -profit entity by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, including, 
but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, colleges, universities, schools other than 
elementary and secondary schools, cemeteries, veterans organizations, recreational 
centers, fund-raising organizations and all other organizations which provide Service 
to the public, listed under Section 101(d) of these Regulations.   The phrase “Taxable 
Institution” shall not include a ny Exempt Institution  or any entity or unincorporated 
association that is not a “person.” 
(g) “Tax” – means the Institution and Service Privilege imposed by Title
Two, Article VII, Chapter 247 of the City of Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances. 
(h) "Tax Year” - the twelve-month period from January 1 to December 31.
(i) “Taxpayer” includes any person  or Institution subject to the Privilege
Tax that is not an Exempt Institution or any entity or unincorporated association that 
is not a “person.” 
(j) "Treasurer" - the Treasurer of the City of Pittsburgh.
Section 102. — Who must file a return. 
(a) Every person or Taxable Institution engaging in a non -profit Service
in the City of Pittsburgh. 
(b) Every person or Taxable Institution subject to  the tax imposed by
Ordinance shall forthwith register with the Treasurer and set forth the name, address 
and nature of the service activity in which it is engaged  and shall obtain the license 
required by Section 247.05 of the Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances. Section 103.—Tax Base. 
The gross receipts of every person engaged in any institution or non-profit Service in 
the City of Pittsburgh.  Specifically excluded from tax are Exempt Receipts. 
Section 104.—What Constitutes Rendering Services in Pittsburgh. 
(a) Whether or not a person carries on a taxable activity within the meaning
of the Institution and Service Privilege Tax is essentially a question of fact. In general, 
taxable activity includes any activity by a person or institution engaging in a Service 
for which a charge is made. 
(b) A person or Institution who engages in a taxable activity in Pittsburgh, is
subject to this tax, whether he is a resident or whether he has a permanent location in 
Pittsburgh. 
Section 105. – Receipts from Governmental Agencies and Non-Profit Organizations. 
(a) Receipts from sales made or Services rendered to all government
bodies, including authorities, and to religious, charitable and educational corporations 
and associations shall not be excluded from the tax base.   Receipts from third party 
payments made by government agencies for Services rendered to others shall be 
included in the tax base. 
(b) Notwithstanding the above, Exempt Receipts and receipts of Exempt
Institutions are excluded from the tax base. 
Section 106. – References to Federal Statutes 
All references in these regulations to federal statutes are intended to include 
references to federal statutes in effect on January 1, 2020, without regard to any later 
amendment or repeal. 
