INSTITUTION TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE VI 
TAXPAYER REMEDIES 

Section 601. – Treasurer (Director) Hearings 
(a) Any taxpayer aggrieved by an assessment by the Treasurer shall, within 
ninety (90) days after the date of notice of the assessment, request a Treasurer’s 
Hearing on a form obtained from the Treasurer for that purpose. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8431. 
The Treasurer may on his/her own initiative cite a Taxpayer for a hearing. 
(b) Any taxpayer who fails to request a Treasurer’s Hearing within a timely 
manner, waives the right to contest any element of the assessment, and that party’s 
failure to challenge the Treasurer’s adjudication will be construed as an admission by 
that party as to the propriety of the assessment. 
(c) The written petition for reassessment shall contain at minimum: 
1. The petitioner’s name, address, and daytime telephone number.  
2. The petitioner’s account and/or social security number.  
3. A copy of the assessment notice the party received from the 
Finance Department.  
4. A detailed explanation consisting of the reason or reasons the 
petitioner disagrees with the assessment and any documentation necessary to support 
the petitioner’s claims.  
5. Petitioner’s signature. 
(d) The completed petition should be mailed to: 
TREASURER HEARINGS  
TREASURER – CITY OF PITTSBURGH  
414 GRANT ST  
PITTSBURGH PA 15219-2476 
(e) Any taxpayer may request a Treasurer’s Hearing so that his tax refund 
request can be reviewed. 
(f) The Treasurer will abate any penalties and interest only in accordance 
with 53 Pa.C.S. § 8428. 
(g) The Treasurer will issue its decision within 60 days of the receipt of the 
petitioner’s complete and accurate petition form. 
 
Section 602. – Appeals 
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Treasurer, following a hearing, shall have 
the right to make an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in 
accordance with the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights Act. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8434.  Any appeal must 
be commenced within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice of the Treasurer’s 
decision. If no such appeal is timely filed, the aggrieved party waives his/her right to 
contest any element of the Treasurer’s adjudication, and that party’s failure to challenge  
the same will be construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety of the 
Treasurer’s decision. No hearing or appeal will operate to suspend the accrual of 
penalty and interest from the date the tax was due to the date it is actually paid. 
 
Section 603. – Payment Under Protest 
The Treasurer will accept payments of disputed tax amounts under protest pending 
appeals; however, any request for refund of such monies must be filed in accordance 
with Section 604. 
 
Section 604. — Refunds. 
(a) A Taxpayer who has overpaid the Privilege Tax, or who believes he/she 
is not obligated to remit the Privilege Tax may file a written request on an amended tax 
return with the Department of Finance for a refund or a credit of the tax. A request for 
refund or a credit shall be made within three (3) years of the due date for filing the 
report or one (1) year after actual payment of the tax, whichever is later. If no report is 
required, the request shall be made within three (3) years after the due date for 
payment of the tax or within one (1) year after actual payment of the tax, whichever is 
later. 
(b) For amounts paid as a result of a notice asserting or informing a Taxpayer 
of an underpayment, a written request for a refund shall be filed with the Department 
of Finance within one (1) year of the date of the payment. 
(c) Every person or institution who ceases to carry on services during any 
tax year after having paid the Institution and Service Privilege Tax for the entire year 
shall, upon making proper application to the Treasurer, be entitled to receive entitled 
to receive a refund of the prorate amount of the tax paid based upon the period of time 
he was not in service during the license year. In the event that a person who 
discontinues services during any tax year does so before payment of its tax becomes 
due for such tax year, it shall be permitted to apportion its tax for such tax year and 
shall pay an amount to be computed by multiplying its gross receipts for the preceding 
full calendar year by a fraction whos e numerator shall be the number of months such 
person or institution was in service during the tax year and whose denominator shall 
be twelve (12). 
Section 605. – Installment Payment Plan For Any Deficiency 
In the appropriate circumstances, the Treasurer will enter an installment payment plan 
and defer further collection action, if the Taxpayer enters into a written agreement with 
the Treasurer. The Treasurer will approve installment payment plans only if such a plan 
is in the best interests of the City. The Taxpayer must specifically request the installment 
payment plan from the Treasurer. For the required terms of any installment plan See, 
Second Class City Treasurer’s Sale and Collection Act, 53 P.S. § 2720 7 and Local 
Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8436.  If the Taxpayer fails to abide by the terms 
of the installment payment plan, the Treasurer may demand immediate payment of tax, 
penalty, and interest. 
