AMUSEMENT TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE III 
COLLECTION AT SOURCE 
 
SECTION 301 – COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX 
 
a. PRODUCERS – Producers shall collect the tax imposed herein and shall be 
liable to the City’s agents thereof for the payment of the same to the City. If, 
however, any Producer fails to make any report or payment as herein required, 
an additional five (5%) percent of the amount of the tax shall be added by the 
Treasurer and collected as a penalty for each month or fraction thereof during 
which the tax remains unpaid, together with interest at the rate set forth in 
Chapter 209 of the Pittsburgh Code. (Ord. 38-1991, eff 11-25-91). 
 
b. TEMPORARY AMUSEMENTS – where permits are obtained for conducting 
temporary amusements by persons who are not the owners, lessees or 
custodians of the places where the amusements are to be conducted, or where 
the temporary amusement is permitted by the owner, lessee or custodian of any 
place to be conducted without obtaining permits required herein, the tax imposed 
shall be paid by the owner, lessee or custodian of the place where the temporary 
amusement is conducted, unless paid by the Producer conducting the amusement 
 
c. SEASON TICKETS – where patrons have the use of boxes or seats pursuant to 
section 241.04(c) of the Pittsburgh Code and are required to pay the entire 
season price at the time the seating is acquired, the Producer shall collect the tax 
imposed herein and remit it at the time the reservation of the seating is made by 
the patron, that is, in advance of the season’s amusement. 
 
d. MONTHLY REPORT – every Producer, except as hereinafter provided, conducting 
a place of amusement, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, shall transmit 
on a form prescribed by the Treasurer, a report under oath or affirmation of 
the amount of tax collected during the preceding month. (Ord. 38- 1991, eff.11-
25-91) 
 
e. PERFORMANCE REPORT – every Producer conducting a temporary place of 
amusement or itinerant form of amusement shall file a report promptly after each 
performance with the Treasurer or his/her duly authorized agent. The conclusion of 
a performance is construed to mean the time when the box office sales are 
concluded. 
 
f. TAX DUE DATE – the amount of all taxes imposed under the provisions of the 
Chapter 241 shall for places of permanent amusement be payable on the fifteenth 
day of the next succeeding month, and shall for temporary or itinerant forms of 
amusement be due and payable on the day such reports are required to be made 
under this section. (Ord. 38-1991, eff. 11-25-91).  
 
g. When the City of Pittsburgh’s Amusement Tax is included in the total collections 
from patrons, the formula for the Amusement Tax is: 
 
A = Amusement Tax  
A = .05 tax rate 
1.00 admission charge + .05 tax rate 
 
A = .05 tax rate 
1.05 admission charge + tax rate 
 
A = .04762 
 
 
The Amusement Tax is deemed included in the Established Price charged the patron if the 
Producer does not separately state the Amusement Tax on any ticket or receipt as required 
by Section 303, or if no receipt or ticket is issued to the patron.   
 
EXAMPLE 
A = .05 tax rate      X $20.00 Total 
1.00 admission charge + .05 tax rate 
 
A = .05 tax rate      X $20.00 Total 
1.05 admission charge + tax rate 
 
A = .04762 X $20.00 Total 
 
A = $ .95  
 
EXAMPLE 
Total admission charge is $20.00 x .04762 = $ .95 tax or 
$19.05 – Admission Charge 
$ .95 tax = 5% of admission charge before taxes 
$20.00 – Total (Admission Charge + Amusement Tax) 
 
SECTION 302 – RECORDS 
 
In general each place of amusement must maintain complete and accurate records of all 
transactions, the total amount of consideration received from all transactions and the total 
amount of tax collected on the basis of such considerations. Records to be kept must 
consist of, but are not limited to a monthly summary showing the starting and ending 
ticket numbers for each series, the number of tickets sold at each representative price and 
the amount of tax collected. 
 
Where an amusement is included in the price of food and drink the place of amusement 
shall total the amount of sales, on the cash register, prior to the amusement. The place of 
amusement shall begin a new cash register tape that will end when the place of 
amusement ends. If the place of amusement does not do this it will pay on the 24 hour 
period of the day that the amusement occurred. Once the total sales have been 
calculated from the place of amusement, the admission charge equals the amount paid for 
food and drink times ten percent. The imputed Amusement Tax equals the admission 
charge times five percent. 
 The amount paid for food and drink x 10% = THE ADMISSION CHARGE 
 
The admission charge x 5% = THE IMPUTED AMUSEMENT TAX 
 
Records to be kept shall include part of each serial numbered ticket used at each place of 
amusement issued to each patron and copies of all leases or contracts or agreements 
supporting the transactions for permanent use of boxes or seats in any place of 
amusement. 
 
SECTION 303 - TICKET LABELING 
 
a. DELINEATING THE AMUSEMENT TAX – for each admission subject to the 
collection of a tax pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 241, the Producer shall 
cause to be printed clearly on the face of any ticket, receipt or any other token 
purchased by a patron for the purpose of admission to an amusement the following 
information: 
 
1. The established price of admission; 
2. The amount of amusement tax due on line 1; and 
3. The sum of lines 1 and 2. 
 
b. SIGNS – every place of amusement must maintain, conspicuously posted at the 
entrance, and near the box-office a place at which the established price is paid, 
one (1) or more signs accurately stating: 
 
1. The established price of admission; 
2. The amount of amusement tax due on line 1; and 
3. The sum total of the established price and the tax. 
 
FAILURE TO COMPLY – in the event that a Producer fails to comply with the ticketing 
and labeling provisions of Section 241.07(a) the Producer shall be subject to the 
suspension and/or revocation of his amusement permit pursuant to section 241.03(c) of 
the Pittsburgh Code. (Ord. 34-1994, eff. 12-30-94).  The failure to comply with the ticketing 
and labeling provisions will not excuse the Producer from timely remitt ing the deemed 
collected Amusement Tax. 
 
SECTION 304 – AMUSEMENT TAX QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
Q. – Are admissions to a movie theater not taxed if provided by an Institution of Purely 
Public Charity?  Is a movie theater considered a Performing Art? 
A. – No.  Admissions to a movie theater are not considered a Performing Art because it is 
not a live performance , and nor would they be considered an Exempt Performing Arts 
Production.  
 
Q. – Does a Producer of home builders’ shows, trade shows, or similar exhibitions have to 
collect the Amusement Tax? 
A. – The admission receipts from a home builders’ show are properly subject to the 
Amusement Tax. The Amusement Tax Chapter 241 of the Pittsburgh Code extends, by definition to trade shows and similar exhibitions. 
 
Q. – Does a Producer of wine tasting, beer tasting, whisky tasting, food tasting or similar 
events have to collect the Amusement Tax? 
A. – The admission receipts from a tasting event are properly subject to the Amusement 
Tax, if the event is primarily intended to showcase a commercial product or products, even 
if no live entertainment or recreation is provided.  However, if the Producer does not provide 
entertainment or recreation, but does collect sales taxes or drin k taxes, based on the 
admission charge or contribution, from the patron, then the event is an Exempt Amusement.   
A tasting event is not an Exempt Amusement even if historical or educ ational material is 
provided to the patron if such historical or educational material is not the primary purpose 
of the event. 
 
Q. – A bar with entertainment has a cover charge of $10.00 with the Amusement Tax 
included.  How much is the Amusement Tax? 
A. - $10.00 cover charge X .04762 = $0.48 Amusement Tax. 
Q. – A bar with entertainment has no cover charge, is any Amusement Tax owed? If so, 
how is it calculated? 
A. – The Amusement Tax is owed. The cover charge shall be imputed per the City Code. 
The amount paid for admission to the amusement shall be ten (10%) percent of the 
amount paid for refreshment, service and merchandise. (The food and drink for a bar). 
The place of amusement must begin a new cash register tape that will end when the 
place of amusement ends. Once you have the total sales from the place of amusement 
you are ready to impute the admission charge. 
The amount paid for food and drink X 10% = the admission charge. The admission charge 
X 5% = the imputed amusement tax. 
An imputed admission charge is implied, and the tax will be collected. An implied charge 
is one that the place of amusement would normally collect. The admission charge is 
therefore imputed and the tax paid by the place of amusement. 
 
 
