AMUSEMENT TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION 101 – DEFINITIONS 
 
AMUSEMENT – all manner and forms of diversion, sport, pastime,  and entertainment, 
including, but not limited to, concerts, shows, theatres, piers, exhibitions, movies, 
vaudeville, circus, carnival and side shows; all forms of entertainment at fair grounds and 
amusement parks; race tracks, contests or feats of talent or skill, athletic contests including 
wrestling matches, boxing and sparring exhibitions, football, basketball and baseball games, 
skating, golfing, tennis, hockey, bathing, swimming, archery, shooting, riding, dancing and 
all other forms of diversion, sport, recreation or pastime; shows, exhibitions, contests, 
displays and games, and all other methods of obtaining admission charges, donations, 
contributions or monetary charges of any character, from the general public or a limited or 
selected number thereof, directly or indirectly, in return for other than tangible property, or 
specific personal professional services.  The term amusement includes admission fees paid 
to access places of entertainment, exhibition, or amusement or to a sporting event or show.  
The term amusement specifically includes trade shows, exhibitions, builder or homes shows, 
equipment shows, craft shows, and tasting events.  The term amusement does n ot include 
any Exempt Amusement or any amusement located outside the City limits.  In the case of an 
amusement that is mobile or located outdoors, an amusement is located in the City limits if 
the event either begins or ends within the City limits.   
 
By way of example, but not intended as comprehensive definition of amusement, a  
restaurant, bar, tavern, pub, lounge, motel, or hotel is not a place of amusement if it merely 
offers incidental recorded music or TV broadcasts to patrons.  A restaurant, bar, tavern, pub, 
lounge, motel, or hotel is a place of amusement if it offers entertainment such as music , 
dance, performing arts, sing -alongs, or comedy routines, or restricted sporting events not 
available on broadcast TV, such as title boxing matches, to patrons. 
 
ESTABLISHED PRICE - regular monetary charge of any character, including donations 
and contributions, fixed and exacted or in any manner received by Producers, as herein 
defined, from the general public or a limited or selected number thereof, directly or 
indirectly, for the privilege of attending or engaging in any amusement, provided that; 
 
1. When amusement is conducted in any roof garden, night club, cabaret, bar, brewery, 
restaurant or other place where the charge for admission, wholly or in part, is 
included in the price paid for refreshment, service or merchandise, the amount paid 
for admission to the amusement shall be deemed to be ten (10%) percent of the 
amount paid for refreshment, service and merchandise; 
 
2. When amusement is conducted at a social club or fraternal organization which also 
furnishes entertainment for which a separate charge is not made, the established 
price shall be fifty (50%) percent of the gross receipts; 
 3. Where admission to any amusement sponsored by an Institution of Purely Public 
Charity is obtained , solely or partly by donation, contribution and other charge, if 
members of the general public are admitted  and the amusement is not an Exempt 
Amusement, the established price for amusement for purposes of the tax shall  be 
twenty-five (25%) percent of the total donation, contribution and other monetary 
charge.  
 
4. Separately stated c harges for the renta l of tangible personal property, where such 
charges reflect market pricing for such rentals, such as the rental of sports equipment 
by a Producer offering recreation, are not part of the Established Price  and are not 
subject to Amusement Tax.  If the Producer collects sales tax from the patron for the 
rental, such will establish that the rental price reflects market pricing. 
 
EXEMPT AMUSEMENTS 
 
1. The term amusement shall not include private affairs sponsored by nonprofit 
organizations for members and their guests at which the admission charges or 
contribution approximate the expenses and the net proceeds , net of reasonable 
expenses, inure exclusively to benefit the nonprofit organization.  However, if members 
of the gener al public are invited to the private affair, the event is not an Exempt 
Amusement, unless the event qualifies as an Exempt Performing Arts Production.  See 
Section 201(c).  
 
2. The term amusement shall not include an Exempt Performing Arts Production. 
 
3. The term amusement shall not include admissions to places of amusement where the 
primary purpose of the admission or event is to provide scientific, historical, or 
educational material to the patron so long as no material entertainment or recreation 
is provided.  Admission charges to lectures of a scientific, historical or educational 
nature, such as continuing education courses, when such lectures are produced or 
conducted by nonprofit associations or clubs are not subject to the tax .  However, 
admission fees to places that provide food or drink, including alcoholic beverages, but 
do not otherwise provide entertainment or recreation, are not Exempt Amusements if 
the primary purpose of the event is to market  or showcase one or more commercial 
products, even if ancillary historical, scientific or educational material also is provided 
to the patron.  Admission fees to tasting events that offer food or drink, but do not offer 
entertainment or recreation, are Exempt Amusements if the Producer collects sales or 
drink taxes from the patron based on the admission charge or contribution.    
 
4. The term amusement shall not include any admission fee or charge paid for the sale 
of admission to or for the privilege of admission to a bowling alley or bowling lane  to 
engage in one or more games of bowling.  The term amusement shall not include real 
property rented for camping purposes.  The term amusements shall not include 
membership dues, fees or assessments paid by patrons to engage in activities, the 
predominant purpose or nature of which is exercise, fitness, health maintenance, 
improvement or rehabilitation, heath or nutriti on education, or weight control.  
However, the patron must participate in this health related activity to qualify for the 
exemption.  The term amusements shall not include membership dues, fees or 
assessments of charitable, religious, beneficial or nonprofit organizations paid by 
patrons, such as sportsmen, recreational, golf or tennis clubs.   Local Tax Enabling 
Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.301.1(f).  
5. The term amusement shall not include any activity that the City is prohibited from taxing 
by reason of the U S Constitution, federal law, or laws of the Commonwealth.  Should 
any Producer claim that any amusement is exempt from the tax under this subsection, 
the Producer shall note the exemption on its filed return and provide a reference to the 
governing law. 
 
EXEMPT PERFORMING ARTS PRODUCTION – a Performing Arts event  where the 
Producer is an Institution of Purely Public Charity and the proceeds, n et of reasonable 
expenses, inure exclusively to the Institutions of Purely Public Charity.  This exemption began 
in 2008.  This exemption may expire, if the Nonresident Sports Facility Usage Fee, imposed 
under Title Two, Article X, Chapter 271 of the Code and the Local  Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. 
§ 6924.304, is determined to be invalid or not possible to be collected.  If the Usage Fee were 
determined to be invalid or not possible to be collected , the tax rate on Exempt Performing 
Arts Productions shall be the same rate as imposed on other amusements, but shall not 
exceed five percent.  Second Class County Code, 16 P.S. § 6171 -B(a)(3.1).  Producers 
should consult the City Finance website to determine if the tax rate on Exempt Performing 
Arts Productions has changed.  
 
INSTITUTION OF PURELY PUBLIC CHARITY – an organization that qualifies for tax 
exemption pursuant to “Institutions of Purely Public Charity Act”.  10 P.S. § 371.  Generally, 
the charity must show that it has a Pennsy lvania sales tax exemption to qualify as an 
Institution of Purely Public charity.  10 P.S. § 376(a). 
  
PATRON – anyone participating in the privilege of engaging in an amusement. (Ord. 15-
1979, eff. 5-29-79) 
 
PERFORMING ARTS – Artistic performances of live concerts, dance, ballet, opera, 
traditional forms of drama, including both comedy and tragedy, repertoire works and 
dramatic recitation of recognized works of literary art of the kind and in the nature 
normally associated with traditional and contemporary American Theater.  Movies and re- 
broadcast events are not considered Performing Arts because the event is not live. 
 
PERSON - A corporation, partnership, business trust, association, estate, trust, foundation 
or natural person. Whenever used in any provision prescribing a fine or penalty the word 
“person” as applied to partnerships, shall mean the partners thereof, and as applied to 
corporations and unincorporated associations, shall mean the officers thereof. 
 
PLACE OF AMUSEMENT – any place indoors or outdoors within the City where the 
general public or a limited or selected number thereof may, upon payment of an established 
price, attend or engage in any amusement as herein defined, including among others, 
theaters, opera houses, moving picture houses, amusement parks, skating rinks, circus or 
carnival tents or grounds, fairgrounds, social sporting, athletic riding, gun and country 
clubs, golf courses bathing and swimming places, dance halls, tennis courts, rifle or shotgun 
ranges, roof gardens, cabarets, night clubs, bars, breweries, restaurants  and other like 
places. (Ord. 11-1980, eff. 7-25-80). 
 
To be an amusement, the amusement must be offered to patrons at a place of amusement.  
The location does not have to be owned or licensed to the Producer to be a place of 
amusement.  The common phrases used to describe an amusement and a place of amusement change over time, but that change in common parlance does not affect the 
taxability of the amusement.  Specifically included within the term of “places of amusement” 
are: cabarets, night clubs, roof gardens, lounges, entertainment stages, music or dancing 
halls, ball rooms, or other locations offering food or beverages or merchandise along with 
entertainment or recreation, as well as other locations that were taxable under Section 4231 
of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (ignoring any exemptions or exclusions offered 
under that federal statute) as it was in effect immediately prior to its repeal by Public Law 89-
44 in 1965. 
 
PRODUCER – any person conducting any place of amusement, as herein defined, 
where the general public or a limited or selected number thereof, may, upon the payment of 
an established price, attend or engage in any amusement. 
 
RESPONSIBLE PERSON – any natural person: (i) who has check signing authority or control 
over financial accounts of the Producer ; (ii) who has powers or job duties that include the 
collection or remittance of the Amusement Tax ; (iii) who has the power to make decisions 
regarding which, when, and in what order outstanding debts and taxes will be paid; and (iv) 
who willfully fails to remit the proper Amusement Tax to the City .  Any such person who 
decides that the Producer will pay another party ahead of the City, while the Amusement Tax 
has not been timely remitted, is presumed to have acted willfully.  Any such person who has 
a nominal title of officer or director or manager or member, but is actually a passive investor 
or official having no involvement in the management of the Producer shall not be a 
Responsible Person.  Generally officers  or managers  of an incorporated Producer or 
managers, directors, officers, or sole owners of an unincorporated Producer are potential ly 
Responsible Persons.  Any Responsible Person shall have the right to appeal an assessment 
under Article VI. 
 
TAXPAYER – Because the tax is imposed on the patron, the patron is the taxpayer.  The 
Producer is merely the collection agent for the City. 
 
TEMPORARY AMUSEMENT – any amusement that is conducted in the City for a 
period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days. (Ord.15-1979, eff. 5-29-79) 
 
TREASURER – references to the Treasurer in these regulations refer to the Director of 
Finance or the Department of Finance. The Director holds principal responsibility for tax  
administration in the City of Pittsburgh. The Deputy Director of Finance or the Department 
of Finance serves as City Treasurer. 
 
SECTION 102 – AMUSEMENT TAX PERMIT 
 
1. Per City Code Title Seven, Article IX, Chapter 771, in addition to the collection and 
payment of the Amusement Tax, every Producer must secure an Amusement 
Tax Permit from the License Officer prior to the event. The fee varies according to 
the location and type of event being held. No Producer shall begin or continue to 
conduct any form of amusement at any permanent or temporary place of amusement, 
or any itinerant form of amusement within the City, unless an amusement permit has 
been issued, the fees paid therefore as prescribed by law and the tax herein imposed 
paid in accordance with law. 
 
2. MORE THAN ONE (1) BUSINESS LOCATION – if the applicant has or intends to 
have more than one (1) place of amusement within the City, the application must indicate the location of each place of amusement and, in the case of an itinerant 
form of amusement, the date and length of time the amusement is to be conducted 
at each place. 
 
TEMPORARY PLACE OF AMUSEMENT – in the case of an application for a permit for a 
temporary place of amusement, the application shall state the name and address of the 
owner, lessee or custodian of the premises upon which such amusement is to be 
conducted. 
 
ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS – if the applicant is an association or a corporation 
the names and addresses of the principal officers thereof and any other information 
prescribed by the Treasurer for purposes of identification shall be stated. 
 
SIGNATURES REQUIRED – the application shall be signed and verified by oath or 
affirmation by the Producer if a natural person, and in the case of an association by a 
member or partner thereof, and in the case of a corporation by an executive officer 
thereof, or some natural person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the 
application, to which shall be attached the written evidence of his or her authority. 
 
ISSUANCE AND USE – upon approval of the application and payment of the fees 
required by law, the Treasurer shall issue to each applicant an amusement permit for each 
place of amusement within the City set forth in his or her application. Amusement permits 
shall not be assignable, shall be valid only for the persons in whose names issued and 
for the conduct of amusements at  the places designated therein, and shall at all times be 
conspicuously displayed at the places for which issued. 
 
PERMIT SUSPENSION – the Treasurer may suspend or after hearing revoke an amusement 
permit whenever he or she finds the permittee has failed to comply with any of the provisions 
of Title Two, Art icle VII, Chapter 241 of the Code . Upon suspending or revoking any 
amusement permit the Treasurer shall request that the permittee surrender to him or her 
immediately all permits and duplicates thereof issued to him or her. The permittee shall 
surrender promptly all permits to the Treasurer as requested. Whenever the Treasurer 
suspends an amusement permit, he or she shall notify the permittee immediately and afford 
him or her a hearing if desired. After the hearing and for good cause, the Treasurer may 
either rescind or continue the order of suspension and revoke the permit. 
 SECTION 103 – PERMIT APPLICATION, ISSUANCE AND USE 
 
1. APPLICATIONS – every Producer desiring to begin or continue to conduct any 
amusement within the City shall file an application for a permanent, temporary or 
itinerant amusement permit with the Bureau of Building Inspection. 
 
2. FORMAT – every application for a permit shall be made upon a form prescribed, 
prepared and furnished by the City, and shall set forth the name under which the 
applicant conducts or intends to conduct a permanent or temporary place of 
amusement. 
 
PERMIT APPLICATION – applications must be filed at least thirty ( 30) days prior to any 
activity with necessary information in order to ensure timely issuance. Anyone who conducts 
a place of amusement or is a Producer of amusements shall obtain a license from the 
Bureau of Building Inspections at: 
Bureau of Building Inspection - City Licensing and Permits Office 200 Ross St Room 320 – 
Pittsburgh PA 15219 
412-255-2175   www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/bbi 
 
