AMUSEMENT TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE II 
COMPUTATION OF TAX 
 
SECTION 201 – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
a. The Amusement Tax is imposed upon the patron of any amusement for the privilege 
of attending or engaging in any amusement at a rate of five (5%) percent of 
admission fees (Pittsburgh Code § 241.04). The tax rate on amusements shall not 
exceed the rate allowed under the Second Class Code, 16 P.S. § 6171-B(a)(3). 
 
b. The Amusement activities taxed include all forms of entertainment – such as 
sports events, music concerts and movies – and recreational activities – such as 
tennis, golf, and swimming. However, Exempt Amusements shall not be subject to 
tax. 
 
c. Special rules apply to events or affairs sponsored by nonprofit organizations when 
members of the general public are admitted. Where admission is obtained to any 
amusement solely or partly by a donation, contribution and other monetary charge, 
the established price for amusement for purposes of the tax shall be twenty-five 
(25%) percent of the total donation, contribution and other monetary charge.  Events 
or affairs sponsored by nonprofit organizations only for members and their guests at 
which the admission charges or contribution approximate the expenses and the net 
proceeds benefit the nonprofit organization are Exempt Amusements. Exempt 
Performing Arts Productions shall not be subject to the Amusement Tax, except as 
otherwise provided. 
 
d. While the tax is imposed on the admission fee charged to patrons, the Producers of 
the activity are responsible for collecting the tax, filing the tax returns and remitting 
the tax to the City of Pittsburgh. To this end, Producers shall file monthly reports with 
the City Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the following month, reporting the 
preceding month on forms provided by the Treasurer (Pittsburgh Code 241.05). If 
any Producer neglects or fails to comply a penalty of five (5) percent of the amount 
of tax will be added to the liability each month. The interest rate for late payments 
will be one (1%) per month (Pittsburgh Code 241.05). 
 
e. Producers of temporary places of amusement shall file reports after each 
performance (Pittsburgh Code 241.05(e). An amusement permit is required prior 
to beginning or conducting any form of amusement at any place, temporary or 
permanent. 
 SECTION 202 – WHO MUST FILE A RETURN – REGISTRATION 
 
a. The City Code, Title Two, Article VII, Chapter 241 imposes a tax on the admissions 
to any place of amusement. The Producer is responsible to collect the amusement 
tax and remit it to the City of Pittsburgh. 
 
b. Every Producer of amusement that begins or intends to begin a place of 
amusement, shall file with the Treasurer, before commencing the place of 
amusement a completed registration form prescribed by the Treasurer and shall 
set forth therein its name, address, business location, the amusement, a record of 
tickets, leases, and contracts that are to  be used and a specimen copy of each and 
any other information as may be required by the Treasurer. 
 
c. Performing Arts Registration – if a Producer is claiming to be a Performing Art for 
which the net proceeds therefrom inure exclusively to the benefit of an Institution of 
Purely Public Charity it shall complete a Performing Arts Registration Form and 
attach all required information. (See definition of Performing Arts and Section 
203(c), Rate for Certain Performing Arts before completing the registration). 
 
SECTION 203 – RATE 
 
a. The Amusement Tax is a patron tax on the established price of an admissions 
charge for any type of event that offers entertainment or allows the patron to 
engage in an amusement. 
 
b. GENERAL RATE – a tax is imposed by Chapter 241 upon the patron of any 
amusement for the privilege of attending or engaging in any amusement at the rate 
of five (5%) percent of the established price charged the general public or a limited 
or selected group thereof, by any Producer for the privilege, which shall be paid by 
the person acquiring the privilege for any given calendar year. 
 
c. RATE FOR EXEMPT PERFORMING ARTS PRODUCTIONS – The rate of tax that 
must be collected on Exempt Performing Arts Productions  is zero.  If it is ever 
determined that the City of Pittsburgh cannot impose and collect a Non-Resident 
Sports Facility Usage Fee pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act, the City of 
Pittsburgh will not establish a rate that exceeds five per centum (5%). Refer to the 
Tax Rate by Tax Type on the web site at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance.  
Second Class Code, 16 P.S. § 6171-B(a)(3). 
 
TAX COMPUTATIONS FOR FREE ADMISSIONS – if persons are admitted free to  
any place of amusement at a time and under circumstances for which an 
established price is charged to other persons, the tax imposed herein shall be 
computed on the established price charged to other persons for the same or 
similar accommodations, to be paid by the person so admitted. If persons are 
admitted at a reduced rate, the tax imposed shall be computed on the reduced rate 
paid.   However, children under twelve (12) years of age, disabled veterans and 
members of the armed services when on active duty and in uniform, who are 
admitted free of charge to any place of amusement, shall not be required to pay 
the tax imposed by this Chapter. 
 
d. TAX ON BOXES OR OTHER SEATING – for persons having the permanent use 
or lease of boxes or seats in any place of amusement, the tax imposed shall be 
computed on the price or rental charged for boxes or seats in the place of amusement, the tax to be paid by the holder or lessee.  (Am. Ord. 33-1994, eff. 1-1- 
95) 
 
e. ROOF GARDENS, NIGHT CLUBS, CABARETS, BARS, BREWERIES, 
RESTAURANTS 
 
1. Where any amusement (entertainment) is conducted at a place where food 
and drink are served and there is no fixed charge for admission, the 
Amusement Tax will be based on 10% of the total amount paid for food and 
drink. For example, if a check for food and drink by a party of four amounts 
to $80.00, the admission charge is 10% of the total check, or $8.00. 
$8.00 admission charge X 5% = $ .40 Amusement Tax. 
 
2. If a cover is required, such charge shall be considered as the regular 
established price paid for admission and is taxable as such. If a total bill 
exceeds the cover charge, the total charge is taxable if it in fact represents a 
charge for admission. If the same charge is made to the person using or 
furnishing his own property or equipment as where property or equipment is 
furnished by the management, such charge is an amount paid for admission 
and subject to tax. If a lesser charge is made to persons who do not desire to 
use the property or services offered, the lesser charge represents the 
admission charge. 
 
3. Donations and contributions are taxable as admission charges when the 
amount of the donation and contributions are stated and when such 
donations or contributions entitle the donor or contributors to attend or engage 
in an amusement. 
 
f. TAX ON FREE OR REDUCED ADMISSION 
 
1. A bona fide employee of the management of the theatre or other places, is 
not liable for the tax if admitted free, but if admitted at a reduced rate, is 
liable for the tax on the reduced price.  Bona fide employees are: 
 
(a) Those persons, including directors and officers, regularly employed 
by the proprietor of the place or attraction or regularly engaged in 
work or business transacted there, whether their duties require 
admission to the place or not, and whether on duty at the time admitted 
or not. 
(b) Other persons whose admission to the place is required for the 
performance of some duty to, or work for, the proprietor. 
 
2. Newspaper reporters, photographers, radio announcers, inspectors and 
persons of similar vocation who are admitted free to any place for the 
performance of special duties in connection with an event and whose special 
duties are the sole reason for their presence and given free admission, are 
not liable for any tax on admission. Free admissions granted to such persons 
who are not admitted solely for the purpose of performing their special duties 
in connection with the event are subject to the tax equivalent to the tax 
on the admission charge paid by other persons for the same or similar 
accommodations. 
 3. The tax imposed upon such free or reduced admissions shall be paid and 
collected at the time such persons are admitted. In the event that tickets or 
cards of admission to the particular performance are not issued but 
admission is secured by the presentation of a life, annual, season, weekly, 
or daily pass, the Producer shall keep a record of such admission and the 
date upon which such privilege was exercised. 
 
g. TAX ON LEASES OR PERMANENT USES 
 
1. Where a person has a permanent use or lease for the use of a box or seat 
in any place of amusement, the tax is computed upon the amount actually 
paid for such use or lease. 
 
2. The tax imposed upon leases for the permanent use of boxes or seats shall 
be collected at the time such lease is entered into, such tax to be paid by 
the lessee or holder. 
 
3. In the case of subscription tickets the tax is levied on the value of the ticket 
acquired and not on any contribution made by the purchaser. 
 
