AMUSEMENT TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE VI 
PRODUCER, TAXPAYER, AND RESPONSIBLE PERSON REMEDIES 
SECTION 601 – TREASURER (DIRECTOR) HEARINGS 

Any taxpayer, Producer, or Responsible Person  aggrieved by  an assessment by the 
Treasurer shall, within ninety (90) days after the date of notice of the assessment, request 
a Treasurer’s Hearing on a form obtained from the Treasurer for that purpose. 53 
Pa.C.S. § 8431. The Treasurer may on his/her own initiative cite a Producer or 
Responsible Person for a hearing. 
 
a. Any taxpayer, Producer or Responsible Person  who fails to request a Treasurer’s 
Hearing within a timely manner, waives the right to contest any element of the 
assessment, and that party’s failure to challenge the Treasurer’s adjudication will 
be construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety of the assessment. 
 
b. The written petition for reassessment shall contain at minimum: 
 
1. The petitioner’s name, address, and daytime telephone number.  
2. The petitioner’s account and/or social security number.  
3. A copy of the assessment notice the party received from the Finance 
Department.  
4. A detailed explanation consisting of the reason or reasons the petitioner 
disagrees with the assessment and any documentation necessary to support 
the petitioner’s claims.  
5. Petitioner’s signature. 
 
c. The completed petition should be mailed to: 
 
TREASURER HEARINGS  
TREASURER – CITY OF PITTSBURGH  
414 GRANT ST  
PITTSBURGH PA 15219-2476 
 
d. Any taxpayer, Producer, or Responsible Person may request a Treasurer’s Hearing 
so that his tax refund request can be reviewed. 
 
e. The Treasurer will abate any penalties and interest only in accordance with 53 
Pa.C.S. § 8428. 
 
f. The Treasurer will issue its decision within 60 days of the receipt of the petitioner’s 
complete and accurate petition form. 
 
 SECTION 602 – APPEALS 
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Treasurer, following a hearing, shall have 
the right to make an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in 
accordance with the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights Act. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8434 .  Any appeal must 
be commenced within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice of the Treasurer’s 
decision. If no such appeal is timely filed, the aggrieved party waives his/her right to 
contest any element of the Treasurer’s adjudication, and that party’s failure to challenge 
the same will be construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety of the 
Treasurer’s decision. No hearing or appeal will operate to suspend the accrual of penalty 
and interest from the date the tax was due to the date it is actually paid. 
 
SECTION 603 – PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST 
The Treasurer will accept payments of disputed tax amounts under protest pending 
appeals; however, any request for refund of such monies must be filed in accordance 
with Section 604. 
 
SECTION 604 – REFUNDS 
a. A Producer or Responsible Person who has overpaid the Amusement Tax, or who 
believes he/she is not obligated to remit the Amusement Tax may file a written request 
on an amended tax return (AT) with the Department of Finance for a refund or a credit 
of the tax. A request for refund or a credit shall be made within three (3) years of 
the due date for filing the report or one (1) year after actual payment of the tax, 
whichever is later. If no report is required, the request shall be made within three (3) 
years after the due date for payment of the tax or within one (1) year after actual 
payment of the tax, whichever is later. 
b. For amounts paid as a result of a notice asserting or informing a Producer or 
Responsible Person of an underpayment, a written request for a refund shall be filed 
with the Department of Finance within one (1) year of the date of the payment. 
c. Patrons who believe that they are owed a refund  because they overpaid the 
Amusement Tax, shall first approach the Producer for a refund because the Producer 
has the best knowledge of the facts surrounding the amusement.  The Producer shall 
have sixty days to review the refund request and grant or deny the refund in writing.  
If a patron still believes he is owed a refund , after the Producer has issued a written 
refusal, he may file a written request for refund with the Department of Finance.  Such 
written request shall include the name and address of the patron, the name and 
address of the Producer, the date or dates of the amusement, a copy of any ticket or 
receipt issued by the Producer, a short summary of the reasons why the patron 
believes the tax was overpaid, a copy of the written rejection from the Producer, a 
calculation of the overpaid Amusement Tax, and a calculation of the correct 
Amusement Tax due and a calculation of the amount that should be refunded.   Only 
refund claims submitted w ithin the timelines of Section 604(a) shall be eligible for 
refund. 
d. No refund shall be allowed to the Producer unless the Producer provides proof to the 
Department of Finance that the Amusement Tax was refunded to the patron, unless 
the Producer provides proof to the Department of Finance that no patron overpaid the tax and the refund is due to a computational error made by the Producer in preparing 
the return.  
e. Erroneous Refund Recovery – The Treasurer may sue for recovery of an erroneous 
refund provided such suit is begun two years after making such refund, except that 
the suit may be brought within five years if any part of the refund was induced by 
fraud or misrepresentation of material fact. 
 
SECTION 605 – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN FOR ANY DEFICIENCY 
 
In the appropriate circumstances, the Treasurer will enter an installment payment plan and 
defer further collection action, if the Producer or Responsible Person enters into a written 
agreement with the Treasurer.  The Treasurer will approve installment payment plans only 
if such a plan is in the best interests of the City.  The Producer or Responsible Person must 
specifically request the installment payment plan from the Treasurer.  For the required terms 
of any installment plan See, Second Class City Treasurer’s Sale and Collection Act, 53 P.S. 
§ 27207 and Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8436.  If the Producer or 
Responsible Person fails to abide by the terms of the installment payment plan, the 
Treasurer may demand immediate payment of tax, penalty, and interest. 
 
 
 
