Budget Authorizing Legislation article 1

Resolution making appropriations to pay the expenses of conducting the public business of the City of Pittsburgh
and for meeting the debt charges thereof for the Fiscal Year beginning January 1, 2024.

- Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Pittsburgh as follows:

-- Section 1.  The revenues of the City of Pittsburgh derived from taxes and other sources for the Fiscal Year
beginning January 1, 2024 and ending December 31, 2024, as well as the unassigned and unrestricted general
fund balance on hand at the close of business on December 31, 2022, are hereby appropriated in the general
fund the sum of $684,677,414 to pay the expenses of conducting the public business of the City of Pittsburgh
during the period beginning January 1, 2024 and ending December 31, 2024.

-- Section 2.  The City Controller, the City Treasurer, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget are
authorized to transfer a total of Twenty-Two Million dollars ($22,000,000) from the general fund to a PAYGO fund
for use in the 2024 Capital Budget.

-- Section 3.  All encumbrances and obligations incurred prior to January 1, 2024 for which services have been
rendered or supplies, materials or equipment actually delivered on or prior to December 31, 2023 and so reported
to the City Controller shall be charged to the proper 2023 appropriation accounts against which encumbrances
have been originally charged. Said encumbrances shall either be paid or cleared by the City Controller per the
City’s encumbrance policy.

-- Section 4.  No liability shall be incurred against any appropriation line item in excess of the budgeted amount,
with the exception of payroll and benefits as required by collective bargaining agreements and applicable laws.

-- Section 5.  No obligation shall be incurred by any Department, Office, or Bureau of the City Government other
than for salaries or wages, except through the issue of an invoice, stating the service to be rendered, work
performed, or supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished together with the estimated cost of the same. The
Director of the Office of Management and Budget is hereby authorized to provide upon requisition by the head of
any department all necessary supplies, materials, equipment and machinery for such department; provided,
however, that no requisition of any department shall be filled by the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget in excess of the appropriation budgeted to the department.

-- Section 6.  Council may, by resolution, restrict expenditures from the appropriations made herein, both as to
amounts of expenditures, reasons for expenditures and the periods within which expenditures may be made.

-- Section 7.  Pursuant to Article V, Section 507 of the Home Rule Charter, Council may amend by resolution the
operating budget within five weeks of the beginning of the 2024 fiscal year, but not thereafter except with the
approval of the Mayor. Council at all times may transfer funds from one account to another if the total budget
amount is not exceeded. This operating budget shall, in any event, remain balanced at all times.

-- Section 8.  Pursuant to Title Two, Article I, Chapter 219, Section 219.02 “Five-Year Plan,” these appropriation
budget also includes a five-year plan which consists of the budgetary years 2024-2028 and a projection for
revenues, expenditures, operating results, and general fund balances for each year.

-- Section 9.  For purposes of administration and account control, the account numbers indicated herein shall be
considered as part of the appropriation titles.

-- Section 10.  The appropriations related to grants, trust funds, and special revenue funds contained in this budget
document shall be used as a guide. The revenues and expenditures of City accounts other than the general
operating budget are authorized by their enabling legislation.

-- Section 11. The City Council Budget Director is authorized to make minor technical and formatting changes to
the budget document as needed. No changes shall change the funding of any department or bureau, or otherwise
be substantive in nature.


