Budget Guide

- Overview of the Government of the City of Pittsburgh

The government of the City of Pittsburgh is composed independently elected and appointed officials who work
alongside more than three thousand employees in the service of advancing the interests of City residents. The
Mayor and City Controller are elected through a citywide vote. City Council’s nine representatives are elected to
office by residents in each of their respective districts.

The Office of the City Controller is responsible for auditing all City expenditures in order to prevent wasteful or
fraudulent practices. Additionally, the City Controller reviews and approves contracts and is also charged with
reporting to the citizens of Pittsburgh, the Mayor, and City Council the state of the City’s fiscal condition. Every
year, the City Controller issues the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, which provides detailed information
on Pittsburgh’s short-term and long-term financial outlook.

City Council proposes, deliberates, and votes on legislation governing and/or affecting the City. This body also
approves appointments, regulates revenues and expenditures, and approves the final Operating and Capital
Budgets. City Council is responsible for the introduction of legislation generated by the administrative branch of
City government and may also introduce legislation from individual Council members to the body as a whole.

City Council as a Body provides Council with centralized staff support under the direction of the City Clerk. The
City Clerk, with the help of the Records Management Division, serves as a centralized document and information
resource to Council, all City Departments, and the residents of the City of Pittsburgh. The City Council Budget
Division monitors City finances and conducts independent analyses of City operations.  It prepares and distributes
to Council periodic reports on revenues, expenditures, and other trends relating to the fiscal condition of the City
of Pittsburgh. It supervises and reviews City Council's annual operating and capital budgets and compiles special
reports and executive summaries to assist Members in their deliberations.

The  Office  of  the  Mayor  is  the  largest  branch  of  the  government  of  the  City  of  Pittsburgh  and  is  directly
responsible for much of the City’s daily operations. This work is performed by individual Departments, Offices,
Bureaus, and Commissions. The services provided by these entities range from public safety and public works to
debt management. Many of these departments focus on specific services. For example, the Department of Law
acts  as  a  legal  advisor  to  the  Mayor,  City  Council,  and  other  Departments.  Two  units  act  as  umbrella
organizations. The Department of Public Safety Bureau of Administration oversees the Bureaus of Police, Fire,
Emergency Medical Services, and Animal Care and Control, as well as the Office of Community Health and
Safety. Similarly, the Department of Public Works Bureau of Administration oversees the Bureaus of Operations,
Environmental Services, and Facilities.

Additionally, there are seven governmental units which fall within the Office of the Mayor in the City’s managerial
hierarchy but whose sources of financing exist outside of the City’s General Fund. For this reason, these
Authorities are not included in the Operating Budget.

A comprehensive visualization of the government of the City of Pittsburgh is included in the organization chart
presented in this document.


- What is the Operating Budget?

The Operating Budget functions as the financial plan for the current fiscal year. Reported within this document are
figures related to planned expenditures and projected revenues for the upcoming fiscal year. Expenditures are
spread across all City Departments, Bureaus, and Elected Offices. These expenditures represent costs for the
administration and distribution of governmental services. These services include, but are not limited to: public
safety, refuse collection, snow removal, street paving, the issuance of permits and licenses, and maintenance and
programming for local parks and community recreation centers. In addition, the General Fund also supports the
routine  administration  of  local  government  that  includes  employee  wages  and  health  benefits,  workers’
compensation benefits, utility and fuel usage, the funding of municipal pension plans, and debt service.

The City collects revenues to finance the costs associated with delivering services to residents. Revenues are
collected by the City from the levy of taxes, collection of fees related to the issuance of permits and licenses,
charges for services provided by City Departments, fines and forfeitures, intergovernmental revenues, and other
revenue generating mechanisms.

The Operating Budget combines information relating to expenditures and revenues, creating a plan as to what
governmental services can be executed by the City and subsequently delivered to the public within a given fiscal
year. The detailed financial figures within this document illustrate both the cost incurred by the City of Pittsburgh in
delivering services to the public and the means through which these costs are financed.

The Operating Budget also stands as a policy document outlining the strategic initiatives of both the Mayor and
Members of City Council. Laws established by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania restrict how much money the
City of Pittsburgh may raise through the levy of taxes and charges for permits and licenses. As a result, the City of
Pittsburgh must balance the demands for services against the available resources that it can legally acquire
through tax and non-tax revenue generating mechanisms. Given the reality of scarce resources, the City must
prioritize initiatives and fund only those determined to be most essential and beneficial to the overall health of the
City. The level of funding allocated to individual Departments and programs within the City clearly exhibits
priorities set by the City’s elected public officials.

Finally, the Operating Budget can be viewed as a legally binding document. All of the costs incurred by the City of
Pittsburgh in providing day-to-day public services must be paid for out of the Operating Budget. Therefore, the
City of Pittsburgh must act within the confines of the financial details outlined within this document. The Operating
Budget can only be altered through a series of formal processes, which parallel those enacted in the initial
creation of the plan.

-- Basis of Accounting

The General Fund budget is adopted on a cash basis of accounting, meaning that the City of Pittsburgh
recognizes revenues when they are received and expenditures when they are paid.

-- The Fiscal Year

The City of Pittsburgh’s fiscal year begins on the first day of January and ends on the last day of December of
each year. This can only be changed by ordinance.

-- Balanced Budget Mandate

The City’s Home Rule Charter requires that the annual Operating Budget be balanced, with estimated revenues
equal to or greater than estimated expenditures. Should revenues exceed expenditures at the end of a fiscal year,
the budget surplus is transferred into the City’s reserve fund balance.


-- The City’s Fund Structure

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the City’s financial reporting system is organized on
a fund basis consisting of two major types of funds: governmental and fiduciary.

                                           Governmental Funds
                                              General Fund
                                              Capital Projects Fund
                                              Community Development Funds
                                              Special Revenues Funds
                                           Fiduciary Funds
                                              Pension Trust Fund
                                              Agency Funds

The General Fund is the main operating fund for the City. It includes most tax revenues and is used to sustain
most  of  the  City’s  day-to-day  activities,  including  public  safety,  public  works,  parks,  planning,  and  general
administration.

The Capital Projects Fund is used to fund construction and/or maintenance of any public property, facility, or
program (such as buildings, park facilities, infrastructure, information technology systems) that is expected to
provide a long-term benefit to the City. All projects funded by debt should meet two requirements: a minimum
value of $50,000 and a life expectancy greater than five years. Funding for the Capital Projects Fund comes from
three major sources: Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) funding, bonds, and State and Federal Funds. For more detail on
the Capital Budget and what it funds, please refer to the 2024 Capital Budget document.

Community  Development  Funds  are  funded  primarily  by  the  federal  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban
Development (HUD). These funds are earmarked for projects relating to housing, economic development, and
human services needs in neighborhoods with a high concentration of low- to moderate-income households.

Special Revenue Funds are funds in which a substantial portion of the proceeds or inflows are restricted or
committed for a specific purpose. Examples of these include the Liquid Fuels Fund, the Pittsburgh Partnership
Fund, and the Grants Fund. While they are included in this document, the City only sets formal appropriations for
two of the funds: the Stop the Violence Fund, and the Parks Tax Fund. Although many of these include the word
“trust” in their titles, this is more of an informal recognition that the funds are designated for special purposes; the
funds are not held by any trustees or custodians.

Fiduciary Funds are used to account for resources held for the benefit of parties outside the government. These
resources are not available to support the City of Pittsburgh’s own operations and are custodial in nature. The
City’s pension plans and its agency funds fall under this type of fund.

     •     The  City  administers  three  pensions  for  full  time  employees:  one  for  police  officers,  a  second  for
          firefighters, and a third for municipal employees.

     •     Agency  funds  include  accounts  held  for  employee  benefits,  payroll  withholding,  escheats,  and  tax
          refunds. The Workers Compensation VEBA (Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Account), the OPEB (Other
          Post-Employment Benefits) Trust Fund, and Real Estate Tax Refunds Trust Funds are examples of
          Fiduciary Funds.

Budget Allocations

This budget document divides total expenditures across the Elected Offices, Departments, and Bureaus that
comprise the government of the City. Individual divisions carry out unique tasks.


The City utilizes a hierarchical chart of accounts to distribute funds to each Department, Bureau, Agency, and
Elected Office. These accounts are organized by levels of detail, with the individual object accounts being the
most specific:
                                        Fund  ...  Cost Center  ...  Subclass  ...  Object Account

The legal appropriations in the Operating Budget refer to the General Fund, which is coded as 11101. Costs are
next delineated by distributing funds across the City’s divisions, referred to here as cost centers.

                                     City Offices, Departments, and Bureaus (Cost Centers)
                                     106000  Office of the City Controller
                                     101100  City Council Districts
                                         101200  City Council as a Body
                                     102000  Office of the Mayor
                                         102200  Office of Management and Budget
                                         103000  Department of Innovation and Performance
                                         105000  Commission on Human Relations
                                         107000  Department of Finance
                                         108000  Department of Law
                                         108100  Ethics Hearing Board
                                         240000  Office of Municipal Investigations
                                         109000  Department of Human Resources and Civil Service
                                         110000  Department of City Planning
                                         130000  Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
                                         210000  Department of Public Safety – Bureau of Administration
                                             220000  Bureau of Emergency Medical Services
                                             230000  Bureau of Police
                                             250000  Bureau of Fire
                                             280000  Bureau of Animal Care and Control
                                            102300  Office of Community Health and Safety
                                         410000  Department of Public Works – Bureau of Administration
                                             420000  Bureau of Operations
                                             430000  Bureau of Environmental Services
                                             450000  Bureau of Facilities
                                         500000  Department of Parks and Recreation
                                         600000  Department of Mobility and Infrastructure
                                         999900  Citizen Police Review Board

Costs are next directly assigned to a subclass, which is a general expenditures category. These include personnel
costs and costs incurred as a result of general operations.

                                                      Subclasses
                                                         51  Personnel - Salaries and Wages
                                                         52  Personnel - Employment Benefits
                                                         53  Professional and Technical Services
                                                         54  Property Services
                                                         55  Other Services
                                                         56  Supplies
                                                         57  Property
                                                         58  Miscellaneous
                                                         82  Debt Service
                                                         90  Transfers
                                                         91  Transfers - Out



The chart of accounts delineates these subclasses into further detail called object accounts. Object accounts are
the most detailed level to which the City of Pittsburgh budgets.

Expenditures are both budgeted and recorded using the account string depicted below. The account string begins
by identifying the fund, followed by the cost center (City division), subclass (expenditure category), object account
(expenditure category detail), and fiscal year. Below is an example account string that represents expenditures
related to postage for the Department of Finance.
                                                    11101.107000.56.56105.2024
                                           11101        107000          56      56105       2024
                                           General
                                             Fund          Dept. of Finance      Supplies    Postage      Fiscal Year

- What Are the City's Sources of Revenues?

Annual City of Pittsburgh revenue is generated by both tax and non-tax sources. There are seven subclasses.

                                                 Revenues
                                                     41  Tax Revenue
                                                     42  License and Permit Revenue
                                                     43  Charges for Services
                                                     44  Fines and Forfeitures
                                                     45  Intergovernmental Revenue
                                                     46  Interest Earnings
                                                     47  Miscellaneous Revenues

-- Tax Revenue

Taxes comprise the majority of City of Pittsburgh revenues. In addition to wage and property taxes, there are
many that are generated by the wide range of services, institutions, and entertainment available within the City.
They are collected from both residents of the City of Pittsburgh as well as nonresidents, when appropriate.

Real estate taxes are the single largest source of tax revenue. The City collects them on behalf of the City, School
District, and the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. Real estate taxes are levied on land and buildings located within
the City of Pittsburgh. Assessments are conducted at the county level by the Allegheny County Office of Property
Assessments and the tax is collected based on the fair market value of property. As of 2023, the City real estate
tax rate is 8.06 mills, the School District real estate tax rate is 10.25 mills, and the Carnegie Library real estate tax
rate is 0.25 mills. Tax relief is provided through various programs including the Homestead Exemption (Allegheny
County Act 50 of 1998) and Senior Tax Relief (Allegheny County Act 77 of 2000).

Other sources of tax revenue for the City of Pittsburgh are the Earned Income Tax, the Payroll Preparation Tax,
the Parking Tax, the Local Service Tax, the Amusement Tax and Non-Resident Sports Facility Usage Fee, the
Deed Transfer Tax, the Public Service Privilege Tax, and the Institution and Service Privilege Tax.

Earned Income Tax is a conventional 3 percent wage tax applied to City and School District residents who earn
wages, salaries, tips, bonuses, or other net profits in a given year. City residents pay a 1 percent City tax and a 2
percent School District tax. Interest, dividends, active duty pay from the Armed Forces, pensions, social security,
and capital gains are commonly excluded.

The Payroll Preparation Tax was initiated following the City of Pittsburgh’s entry into Act 47 in 2003 and is levied
at the rate of 0.55 percent on the gross payroll of employers and the distribution of net income from self-employed
individuals, members of partnerships, associations, joint ventures or other entities who perform work or provide
services within the City of Pittsburgh. Nonprofit and other charitable organizations are excluded from this tax.


Finally, the Parking Tax is collected from users of private and public parking facilities located within the City of
Pittsburgh. A portion of the Parking Tax is dedicated to the City of Pittsburgh’s pension fund until 2051.

In 2022, actual tax revenue totaled $537,692,183, or 76.5 percent of total City revenue.

City of Pittsburgh voters approved a referendum in 2019 to add 0.50 mills to the real estate tax to collect funds for
the improvement of the City's parks. These funds are not deposited into the General Fund. Please see the Stop
the Violence Trust Fund section for more information.

-- Non-tax Revenue

“Non-tax revenue” is a catch-all term referring to funding mechanisms utilized by the City of Pittsburgh that do not
directly involve the levying of taxes. Residents may be familiar with examples such as building construction
permits and liquor and malt beverage licenses. However, there are other types of non-tax revenue, such as
interest earnings on investments, that are less visible. Generally, the two largest subclasses of non-tax revenue
for the City of Pittsburgh come from intergovernmental sources and license and permit fees.

Each year, the City of Pittsburgh receives funding from federal, state, and local government sources in the form of
grants, aid, and reimbursements for services performed. For example, the Liquid Fuels Tax object account
consists of funds received from the state and offsets some of the costs of road maintenance and road salt. Most
intergovernmental funding comes from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the form of pension aid. Local
entities, such as the Pittsburgh Parking Authority and the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority, and federal
agencies also contribute to intergovernmental revenue. In utilizing this funding, the City's goal is to enhance the
quality of municipal services and reduce the City's financial burden.

Many City departments provide various services for which rent or fees are charged. Examples of these fees
include payments for safety inspections, copying City documents, rents from City properties, and the use or sale
of  rights  of  way.  In  addition,  the  City  is  compensated  for  services  provided  to  other  municipalities  and
governmental entities. For example, Emergency Medical Services collects fees after it transports individuals to
receive medical care.

In 2022, actual non-tax revenue totaled $165,191,649, or 23.5 percent of total City revenue.

- How Does the City Spend Money?

The tax and non-tax revenue collected annually by the City of Pittsburgh is used to provide services to residents
ranging  from  refuse  pick-up  to  the  regular  maintenance  of  capital  assets.  Expenditures  are  monitored  by
department or division and by subclass.

Major expenditures include health insurance costs, pension payments, and workers’ compensation claims for City
of Pittsburgh employees. The Operating Budget also pays the principal and interest costs associated with past
and current issuance of debt generated by previous and ongoing capital projects and other programs. The chart
below illustrates historic costs associated with debt service, pension and other post-employment benefits (OPEB)
contributions, health insurance and workers’ compensation.


-- Health Insurance

These expenditures are categorized within the Personnel – Employment Benefits subclass. Prior to 2016 these
expenditures were budgeted centrally in the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service. Except for retiree
health  insurance,  these  expenditures  are  budgeted  across  all  divisions  based  on  staffing  levels  and  plan
elections.
                                                Health Insurance
                                                   52101  Health Insurance
                                                   52111  Other Insurance and Benefits
                                                   52121  Retiree Health Insurance

-- Workers’ Compensation

These  expenditures  are  categorized  within  the  Personnel  –  Employment  Benefits  subclass.  Most  medical,
indemnity, and fees are budgeted across divisions with outstanding claims. Legal and settlement expenses
remain budgeted in the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service with accounts organized as follows:

                                               Workers' Compensation
                                                  52301  Medical - Workers' Compensation
                                                  52305  Indemnity - Workers' Compensation
                                                  52309  Legal - Workers' Compensation
                                                  52314  Workers' Compensation Settlement
                                                  52315  Workers' Compensation Fees

-- Pension & OPEB

The City of Pittsburgh operates three pension plans for retired police, fire, and municipal employees. "Other post-
employment benefits" refers to benefits, such as health insurance, that are provided to qualifying retired City
workers. These expenditures are housed within the Personnel – Employment Benefits subclass in the Department
of Finance and are organized via the following individual accounts:


                                               Pension and OPEB
                                                  52401  Pension Contribution
                                                  52404  Retiree Contribution
                                                  52407  Widow(er) Contribution
                                                  52410  Survivor Contribution
                                                  52413  Additional Pension Fund
                                                  52416  Early Retirement Healthcare
                                                  52419  Retired Police Officer
                                                  52422  Retired Firefighters
                                                  52423  Retired EMS
                                                  52605  Retirement Severance
                                                  52901  OPEB Contribution

-- Debt Service

Debt service is defined as payments made to the principal and interest balances of previously issued municipal
bonds in order to ensure their timely retirement. Debt service exists as its own subclass within the Department of
Finance and is composed of the following accounts:

                                               Debt Service
                                                  82101  Interest Expense - Bonds
                                                  82103  Principal

- Budget Creation Process

The operating budget development cycle begins in late spring, when the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) forwards a memorandum detailing the budget preparation process and general high level expectations,
policy goals, and citywide strategic initiatives to all City divisions. OMB also holds public meetings, as required by
City Code.

After receiving baseline budgets from OMB, individual divisions work with their budget analysts to draft and submit
proposals. Each division presents budget proposals to OMB. These proposals include current year achievements,
requests  for  general  and  project-specific  funding,  and  personnel  position  changes. The  Mayor  reviews  the
proposals to ensure that requests align with citywide goals and strategic plans/initiatives and decides which, if
any, should be funded.

The Mayor releases a preliminary budget at the end of September. OMB hosts additional public meetings to
garner feedback. If fiscal conditions allow for changes, revisions are made. When the proposals and the Mayor’s
strategic initiatives are aligned, the Mayor formally submits both budgets to City Council in November.

City Council reviews the budget and holds a number of meetings and televised hearings with each division. After
consideration of public input and Member priorities, City Council makes changes to the budget and then holds a
vote to adopt the budget. This must occur before December 31st.  Failure to enact a budget prior to January 1st of
the new year means that the City cannot pay any vendors, cannot undertake any projects, and cannot (subject to
collective  bargaining  agreements)  pay  any  employees.  The  last  time  a  budget  was  not  approved  before
December 31st was 1931.

Upon adoption, OMB is responsible for implementing and overseeing the City of Pittsburgh’s Operating and
Capital Budgets. Throughout the fiscal year, OMB monitors the City’s expenditures and revenues, provides
legislative oversight on any matters related to the budget, and oversees budget transfers and adjustments.
Analysts in OMB prepare quarterly reports on the performance of major revenue sources and expenditure
categories, reports on key factors driving the budget, reports on cash flow, and brief updates on important
management initiatives.


- Five-Year Financial Forecast

In addition to developing the budget, OMB and the Department of Finance are responsible for estimating both
expenditures and revenues for the four years following the next fiscal year. Together, these estimates comprise
the five-year financial forecast reported in the budget document.

The five-year forecast allows City Officials to evaluate the fiscal health of the City for a longer period of time. This
aids in identifying any future trends related to revenues and/or expenditures that may have an immediate or long-
term impact on City operations. In addition, the five-year plan is used by City decision makers when planning for
long-term strategies, formulating departmental and citywide initiatives, and developing new policies that might
result in a financial impact. The financial forecast is an essential tool in maintaining financial discipline, thus
ensuring the delivery of essential services to residents of the City of Pittsburgh.

-- Revenue Forecast

Revenues represent the available resources afforded to the City to carry out basic administrative operations and
deliver services to City residents. The ability of the City of Pittsburgh to generate revenue is governed by the
rights afforded to the City under its Home Rule Charter and by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Projected future year expenditures are directly influenced by future year revenues projections.

The Department of Finance utilizes a variety of techniques and information sources to develop revenue forecasts.
Previous years’ financial data is used to forecast growth for major tax and non-tax revenues. Monthly and end-of-
year financial data related to all revenues are archived and updated in the City’s enterprise resource planning
(ERP) system. This information is then analyzed through statistical methods to ascertain growth in each revenue
line. Where applicable, the City then applies a growth rate to each revenue line.

In addition to the previous years’ financial data, the City consults with IHS Markit to forecast regional economic
variables. These economic variables help to inform how various aspects of the economy can affect revenue
generating activity in the City. The City also incorporates data from federal government agencies such as the
Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Bureau of Labor Statistics and organizations such as Fannie Mae, the
National Association of Realtors, and RealSTATs.

Revenue projections are finalized after a series of meetings with various stakeholders related to the City of
Pittsburgh’s  Operating  Budget.  The  City  Controller  verifies  that  budgetary  assumptions  and  estimates  are
developed  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing  standards  and  that  revenue  assumptions  are
reasonable. Following consensus by all stakeholders in the budget development process, the revenue projections
are finalized and incorporated into the five-year financial forecast.

-- Expenditure Forecast

OMB is responsible for developing the expenditure projections for the five-year forecast. To develop these
forecasts OMB first enters all known future year expenditures into its budget management software. These known
expenditures are those that are either contractual (professional service contracts, debt service payments, pension
contributions, etc.) or generally predictable (staffing levels in each department, citywide salary increases, etc.).

OMB then develops forecasts which consider past year expenditure data and future growth, strategies, and
initiatives. While most costs remain relatively static some expenditures lines, such as healthcare and fuel, are
subject to growth in future years. These increases are largely a product of costs rising in the private market. This
is accounted for in the financial forecast by applying a percentage growth each year based on trend,

Lastly, the Directors of each City division present any requests that are not captured by the methods described
above. These requests are often related to software, equipment, or personnel and are regarded to be essential in
achieving the goals or augmenting the services of each individual Department. OMB compiles all such requests
and evaluates how they relate to the Mayor’s strategic initiatives. Subject to available funds, those requests that
fall in line with the citywide initiatives are funded in each respective division’s budget in the five-year forecast.


- How to Read the Budget

Throughout this budget document, financial data is illustrated in a variety of ways. In general, each separate
section of the document reports the same financial data. The level of detail is the only substantial difference
between each report within a section.

-- Departmental Sections

The most detailed and specific illustration of the General Fund Operating Budget financial data can be found in
the Departmental Sections of the document. This section details funds by subclass and account that have been
appropriated to each individual division. The following are the different components that in aggregate make up the
Departmental Sections of the Operating Budget.


-- Organization Chart

The organization chart is a visual depiction of the functional areas within each City Department, Agency, Bureau,
or Elected Office that are responsible for the execution of services and programs. The chart is very general; with
the exception of directors or other managers, the chart does not identify individual positions.

-- Departmental Overview

At  the  beginning  of  each  departmental  section,  readers  will  find  a  Mission  Statement  which  defines  the
organization. The Mission Statement is followed by an overview that provides a detailed description of the
department. This section of the narrative describes different functional areas within each Department, Agency,
Bureau, or Elected Office and their associated services or programs. Current year accomplishments are listed.

-- Position Summary

The position summary lists all of the budgeted jobs within the organization. The full-time equivalent, or “FTE,”
represents  the  number  of  full-time  workers  in  the  position.  The  “Rate/Grade”  category  indicates  how  an
employee’s pay level is calculated. Grade and step plans for non-union employees and AFSCME 2719 employees
can be found as an appendix to this document. For full time positions, a “12” in the “Hours/Months” column
indicates that the position is budgeted for all 12 months in the year. Smaller numbers indicate a position starting or
ending mid-year. For part time positions, the number in this column represents budgeted hours of work. The
“Budget” column highlights the total amount, in dollars, that is allocated to pay all personnel in that position. The
“Vacancy Allowance” adjusts the subclass expenditures to account for savings associated with vacant positions
throughout the year. A summary from 2023 is also included to facilitate comparisons.

-- Subclass Detail

This portion of the departmental budget includes 2022 actual expenditures and budget numbers at the subclass
and object account level. For example, the general “Professional and Technical Services” subclass will highlight
the  appropriation  amounts  for  specific  accounts,  such  as  “Administrative  Fees,”  “Workforce  Training,”  and
“Computer  Maintenance.”  Readers  can  easily  compare  budgeted  expenditures  from  2023  with  budgeted
expenditures for 2024. The final columns shows the difference and percent difference between the 2023 and 2024
budgeted amounts.

Under the Personnel – Salaries & Wages subclass, there are several important details. Regular salary represents
the total base pay for the organization. Longevity pay is awarded to employees in certain collective bargaining
agreements based on seniority and tenure. Salary allowances are used to pay for part-time, temporary, or
seasonal workers, as well as student interns. When uniform allowances are paid directly to employees, their costs
are listed accordingly. Leave Buyback represents sick leave hours that can be “sold back” to the City. Premium
Pay appropriations compensate for overtime hours. Reimbursements are funds from outside sources that are
used to offset certain position expenses.

-- Five-Year Forecasts

Finally, the five-year forecast allows readers to consider what the City expects to spend in the future. In addition to
the 2024 budget, there are projections for 2025 through 2028. The percent change from the prior year is included
as a reference point.

-- Note for Fund Accounts

For special revenue accounts that are included in the Operating Budget, the Fiscal Year 2024 summary is
composed of the “Projected Beginning Balance” for January 1, 2024, anticipated revenues and expenditures, and
the “Projected Ending Balance” for December 31, 2024. These funds carry over from year to year. A position
summary follows when appropriate.

