LOCAL SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE III 
COLLECTION AT SOURCE
 
SECTION 301 – COLLECTION THROUGH EMPLOYERS 
a. Every employer not registered with the City shall, within 15 days after first becoming an 
employer, register with the City the employer’s name, address and such other information 
as the City may require. 
b. All employers and self-employed individuals are required to collect the Local Services Tax 
from all employees engaged in an occupation within the City, unless the employee files  
an Exemption certificate with the employer. Exemption certificates must indicate a basis 
for exemption and must be retained for 3 years. 
c. Employers are required to remit the Local Services Tax within thirty (30) days after the 
end of each quarter of a calendar year. For purposes of this tax, sole proprietors and 
partners shall be deemed to be employees. 
WHEN TO FILE AND PAY – The employer shall file a return of taxes deducted for each 
three-month period (quarter) on or before the last day of the month following each three- 
month period. 
FIRST QUARTER (03): January 1 thru March 31 (due April 30) 
SECOND QUARTER (06): April 1 thru June 30 (due July 31) 
THIRD QUARTER (09): July 1 thru September 30 (due October 31) 
FOURTH QUARTER (12): October 1 thru December 31 (due January 31) 
d. Any employer, who discontinues business or ceases operation before December 31 of 
the current tax year, shall within fifteen (15) days after discontinuing business or ceasing 
operation, file the return hereinabove required and pay the tax to the Treasurer. 
e. The failure of any employer to deduct the tax shall not relieve the employee from the duty 
to file a return and pay the tax. The employee must first contact the City of Pittsburgh 
Finance Department at 412-255-2510 then file an LS -3 form. No employer shall be held 
liable for failure to withhold the Local Services Tax to a political subdivision if the failure to 
withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as to the 
employee’s place or places of employmen t. Any employer who fails to deduct the tax as 
required by this section, or who fails to pay the tax to the Treasurer,  shall be liable for 
such tax in full. As to employees who present official receipts evidencing prior payment of the tax either 
directly or by collection through other employers in Pennsylvania, the employer shall not 
deduct the tax but shall maintain adequate records concerning the employees. 
f. The employer must list on the employee’s pay stub how much was withheld and list the 
municipality it was paid to. List PITTSBURGH as “PGH”. 
g. Upfront Exemption . Employers are required to discontinue withholding the LST if an 
employee provides an exemption certificate showing that he has earned income and/or 
net profits of less than $12,000. The exemption certificate must verify that the employee 
reasonably expects to receive earned income and/or net profits of less than $12,000 from 
all sources within the City for the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. 
A copy of the employee’s final pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within Pittsburgh 
for the year prior to the calendar year for which the employee is requesting an exemption 
must be attached to the exemption certificate. Employers must make upfront exemption 
forms readily available to employees at all times and provide new employees with  the 
forms at the time of hiring. Employers are relieved of liability due to incorrect information 
on the exemption certificate completed by the employee. 
Employers are only required to withhold the LST on a payroll period basis for those 
payroll periods in which the taxpayer is employed. However, when two or more employers 
employ a taxpayer in a payroll period, an employer is not required to withhold the LST if 
the taxpayer provides a pay stub from his/her principal employer accompanied by an 
employee stat ement of principal employment that the pay stub is from the taxpayer’s 
principal employer and that the taxpayer will notify the employer of any change in 
employment. Employers are relieved of liability for the tax if they fail to withhold the tax due 
to incorrect information provided by the taxpayer regarding the taxpayer’s principal 
employer. 
h. Military Exemption . Employers must exempt from the LST: (1) members of a reserve 
component of the armed forces called to active duty and (2) honorably discha rged 
veterans who served in any war or armed conflict who are blind, paraplegic, or a double 
or quadruple amputee as a result of military service or who are 100% disabled from a 
service-connected disability. 
i. Restoration of Withholding . Employers must “rest art” withholding the LST from an 
employee who files an exemption certificate in the following  circumstances: 
 If instructed to do so by the political subdivision levying the LST; 
 If notified by the employee that he is no longer eligible for the exemption; or 
 If the employer pays the employee $12,000 or more for the calendar year. 
Employers “restart” withholding of the LST by withholding (1) a “catch -up” lump sum  
equal to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the employee as a result of the 
exemption; and (2) the same amount per payroll period that is withheld from other 
employees. 
j. The employer must attach a summary on a CD or hard copy with the fourth quarter 
payment listing the following information: 
 Employer’s name, address in Pittsburgh, Federal ID number, and the employer’s City 
account number.  The summary must include an employee’s name, Social Security number, wages, 
address and the amount of Local Service Tax withheld and paid to Pittsburgh for the 
complete calendar year. 
 Please see the LST tax form at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance for the format to 
use on CD. 
 Concurrent Employment. If a taxpayer has two or more jobs in different political 
subdivisions during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect the LST is as 
follows: 
1. Where the taxpayer maintains his principal office or is principally employed; 
2. Where the taxpayer resides and works; and 
3. Where the taxpayer is employed that is nearest in miles to the taxpayer’s home. 
k. If any employer fails or refuses to pay over to the Treasurer any tax required to be 
withheld under this section by the due date, a penalty of 5% for every month or fraction 
thereof that the tax remains unpaid shall be added and collected, the penalty is capped at 
50%. Interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum on the amount of tax unpaid 
for each month or fraction of a month that tax remains unpaid shall be added and 
collected. 
SECTION 302 – DIRECT PAYMENT BY TAXPAYER 
Every taxpayer who is self -employed, a partner, or any taxpayer that did not have the tax 
withheld for any other reason, shall file a LS -3 form and shall pay the tax directly to the 
Treasurer. The tax is $52 and should be pro-rated and paid on a quarterly basis. Taxpayers shall 
file and pay the tax 30 days after the end of each quarter. 
SECTION 303 – LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES 
Any employer required to withhold the tax in accordance with the City Code and with these 
Regulations shall be personally liable for paymen t of the tax in the event he fails, refuses or 
neglects to withhold or transmit the tax or any portion thereof, in addition to the interest and 
penalties. Any taxes deducted and withheld from employees, plus any penalties and interest 
thereon, constitute a  trust fund for the benefit of the City. The failure to timely remit such funds 
allows the City to collect such trust funds from the employer, the employer’s representative, or 
any other person receiving such trust funds.  53 P.S. § 6924.705(b)(1). 
The failure or omission of any employer to make the correct deductions required by this section 
shall not relieve any employee from the payment of the tax or the balance determined to be due, 
together with penalty and interest from the date the tax was due , or from complying with the 
requirements of the Code relating to the filing of declarations and returns. 


