LOCAL SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS 
EXAMPLES FOR LOCAL SERVICE TAX (LST) 
 
1. How is the LST deducted from the employee’s pay and remitted to the City? Example, 
employees work full time in the City and all employees earn $12,000 or more.  What is  
the employer’s responsibility? 
ANSWER:  The employer is required to withhold the pro-rata share of the tax by dividing 
$52 by the number of payroll periods established by the employer for the calendar year. 
The $52 tax would be collected at $1 per week for taxpayers paid weekly or at $4.33 per 
month for taxpayers paid monthly. When calculat ing the pro -rata share, employers are 
required to round down to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. 
The employer must remit the LST quarterly. The LST form is provided by the City. The  
tax should be paid the month following the end of each quarter. The  LST forms can be 
downloaded at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance 
2. At the beginning of the year, an employee expects to earn a total of $10,000 in the City  
for the entire calendar year. Should the employer withhold the LST? 
ANSWER: No. If an employee files an exemption certificate with his employer stating that 
he will earn less than $12,000 for the entire year, the employer is not required to  
withhold the LST.  The employer is required to have the exemption certificate available  
for employees to complete. 
The exemption certificate can be downloaded at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance 
3. A new hire files an exemption certificate with his employer. The employer and his 
employee realize with 13 weeks left in the year that he will earn $12,000 because he is 
working more hours than anticipated. He is paid weekly. Is his employer responsib le for 
withholding the LST now? 
ANSWER: Yes. After the employer realizes that the employee will  earn  $12,000  or 
more, the employer must withhold $40 ($39 + $1) from the next pay to catch-up then 
$1.00 a pay for the remaining 12 pays for a grand total of $52. 
4. Employee has two part -time jobs; one located in the City which pays him $8,000 a year 
and another in Municipality “A” that pays him $7,000 a year. Does this person need to  
pay the LST? 
ANSWER: No.  The taxpayer should file an exemption certificate w ith both employers  
and have no LST deducted. The Taxpayer is not subject to the LST since he did not earn 
$12,000 in any single municipality. If the tax was withheld the employee could file a  
refund claim with each municipality after January 31 of the following year. The refund 
request form can be downloaded at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance - the form is 
listed as LST REFUND FORM. 
5. An individual works January thru June in the City and July thru December in Municipality 
“A”. He earns $10,000 a month at both jobs and is paid once a week. What is his liability 
to Pittsburgh? 
ANSWER: His employer in the City should withhold $1 a week for 26 pay periods and 
remit $26 along with his other employees’ deductions to the City. Municipality “A” would 
be entitled to the LST for the 2 nd half of the year. The emp loyee should provide proof of 
LST paid for the first half of the year to Municipality “A”. 
6. An individual works July thru December in the City. He did not work January thru June, 
anywhere. He earns $10,000 a month. Does he owe the $52 LST to the City? 
ANSWER: Yes. His employer knows that this employee is over  the  $12,000  low  
income exemption level. No exemption certificate has been filed. The $52 may be 
prorated for the rest of the year; however the employer should withhold $52 because that  
is what the employee owes. 
SECOND OPTION: The employer at his option may also deduct a lump sum equal to the 
prior periods that were missed. This payroll deduction should also include the current 
payroll deduction that he and his co -workers are liable for. For example, if he is paid 
once a week, h e would add $1 to his lump sum prior liability, and this would be 
deducted from one paycheck. 
7. An employee has 2 jobs and both are part time. Both started at the beginning of January. 
Job #1 is in the City and pays the employee $1,000 a month. Job #2 is in Municipality “A” 
and paid the taxpayer $500. Where should the tax be paid? 
ANSWER: Since both jobs started at the same time, the job that pays the employee the 
most should be considered his principal job and in this case it would be the City. The LST 
should be paid to the City. The employee should file an exemption certificate with 
Municipality “A” or proof that his principal employer is located in the City. 
8. On January 1, an employee worked for an employer in Municipality “A” and paid $10. In 
June the emplo yee started a new job in the City and will make over $12,000 at this job.   
Is the employer required to withhold the LST from the employee? 
ANSWER: Yes. The employer must still withhold $42 ($52 less $ 10 previously paid) 
if the employee provides proof that the $10 was paid to Municipality “A”. Then the 
employer must pro-rate the $42  based on the remaining payroll  periods. 
SECOND OPTION: The employer at his option may also deduct a lump sum equal to the 
prior periods that  were missed. This payroll deduction should also include the current 
payroll deduction that he and his co -workers are liable for. For example, if he is paid 
once a week, he would add $1 to his lump sum prior liability, and this would be 
deducted from one paycheck. 
9. An employee files his exemption certificate late. The employer has already withheld $52. 
Can the employee apply for a refund? 
ANSWER: Yes. The employee should request the refund from the employer. It is 
permissible and recommended that his employe r refund the current year LST and make 
an adjustment for their next quarterly remittance to the City for the current year. 
If the employer does not refund the LST, the employee can apply for a refund from the 
City after the employer’s fourth quarter paymen t and summary form is filed at the end of 
January of the following year (see Section 301(j)). 
The City is not required to pay interest until 75 days after the fourth quarter or when the 
taxpayer files for a refund, whichever is later. 10. Employee works 4 months in the City and earns $20,000. His employer  is  located 
outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Is the employee required to pay the $52 
LST? 
ANSWER:   Yes. 
11. Is a self-employed person or a  partner who has an office in the City or who works out  
of his home  located in the City subject to the LST? 
ANSWER: Yes.   A self-employed person or partner is subject to the $52   LST.  The 
tax may be  prorated and paid quarterly. 
 

