LOCAL SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS 
SECTION 101 – DEFINITIONS 
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
The following words and phrases when used in these regulations shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: 
CITY – City of Pittsburgh 
CODE – Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances as adopted by the Council of the City and as updated by 
the amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P. S. § 6924.101, and following. 
COMPENSATION – any salaries, wages, commissions, tips, bonuses, fees, including net profits 
from a  business for individuals,  partnerships and  any  other unincorporated taxpayers. 
CURRENT YEAR – The calendar year for which the tax is levied. 
D.C.E.D – Department of Community and Economic Development (Pennsylvania).
EMPLOYER – a person, partnership, limited partnership, association, unincorporated or 
otherwise, corporation, institution, trust, governmental body or unit or agency, or any other entity 
situated or doing business in the City employing one or more persons, including self - 
employment, for a salary, wage, commission or other compensation. An unincorporated 
association shall be deemed to be the employer of any partner in the association. 
EXEMPT P ERSON – a person who files an exemption certificate with his employer affirming  
that he reasonably expects to receive earned income and net profits from all sources within the 
City of less than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) in the calendar year for wh ich the exemption 
certificate is filed. See Section 301(h) below, and Section 2 of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 
6924.301.1, for other exemptions. 
INCOME – all earned income and net profits from whatever source derived, including but not 
limited to salaries, wages, bonuses, commissions and income from self -employment earned in 
Pittsburgh. 
LOCAL SERVICES TAX (LST) – a tax on individuals for the privilege of engaging in an 
occupation. The Local Services Tax may be levied, assessed and collected by the  political 
subdivision of the taxpayer’s primary place of employment. 
OCCUPATION – any livelihood, job, trade, profession, business or enterprise of any kind for 
which any compensation is received. A person may have more than one occupation. An individual 
who is an employee, self -employed, or a partner in an unincorporated association carrying on a 
livelihood, job, trade, profession, business or enterprise of any kind for which compensation is 
received shall be deemed to have an occupation. 
PARTNER – Any partner in a partnership, any member of a limited liability company, any member 
of a business trust, or other owner of any unincorporated association which is carrying on an 
occupation, who is also a natural person, shall be deemed to be a partner  in an unincorporated 
association. 
PERSON OR INDIVIDUAL – a natural person. Whenever used in any provision prescribing a 
fine or penalty the word “person” as applied to partnerships, shall mean the partners thereof, 
and as applied to corporations and unincorporated associations, shall mean the officers thereof. 
PERSONS SUBJECT TO LOCAL SERVICES TAX – any person who is an employee, partner in 
an unincorporated association, or self-employed individual who has compensation or income from 
within the City, associated with an occupation, shall be subject to the LST, unless he or she is an 
exempt person. TAX YEAR – a twelve (12) month period from January 1 to December 31. 
TAXPAYER – A person, partnership, limited partnership, association, unincorporated or 
otherwise, corporation, institution, trust, governmental body, unit or agency or any other entity 
situated or doing business in the City, liable for tax under Chapter 252 of the City Code. 
TREASURER – references to the Treasurer in these regulations refer to the Director and/or the 
Department of Finance. The Director holds principal responsibility for tax administration in the 
City. The Deputy Director of Finance serves as City Treasurer. ARTICLE II IMPOSITION OF TAX 
SECTION 201 – TIME FRAME 
A Local Services Tax has been levied pursuant to the City Code, Title II, Article VII, Chapter 252, 
for the period January 1 thru December 31 for the purposes of supplementing the funds for (1) 
Police, Fire and/or Emergency services; (2) road construction and/or maintenance; or (3) 
reduction of property taxes. This tax was levied for the privilege o f engaging in an occupation 
within the city for each calendar year. It shall be paid over to the Treasurer as set forth in 
Chapter 252. Each natural person who engages in an occupation shall pay a tax in the amount 
of $52 in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 252 of the City Code. 
RATE OF TAX –$52 – A person subject to the Local Services Tax shall be assessed a pro rata 
share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging in an occupation. The 
pro rata share shall be determined by dividing the rate of the Local Services Tax levied for the 
calendar year by  the number of payroll periods established by the employer for the calendar 
year. Example:  $52 /26 pay periods equal $2 per pay.  Employers are required to remit the  
Local Services Tax thirty days after the end of each quarter of a calendar year. For purp oses of 
this tax, sole proprietors and partners shall be deemed to be employees. 
The situs of the Local Services Tax shall be the place of employment, but, in the event a person 
is engaged in more than one occupation or municipality at the same time, the p riority of claim to 
collect such tax shall be the municipality in which a person is principally employed for the pay 
periods in question. 
Beginning in 2008 a person seeking to claim an exemption from the Local Services Tax may 
annually file an exemption ce rtificate with his employer. The employee shall attach to the 
exemption certificate a copy of all the employees last pay stubs or W -2 forms from employment 
within the political subdivision for the year prior to the calendar year. 
Exemption certificates can be downloaded at www.city.pittsburgh.pa.us/finance 
Beginning in 2008, the following persons are exempt from this tax: (1) any person whose total 
earned income and net profits from all sources within the City is less than twelve thousand 
dollars ($12,000) for the calendar year; (2) any person who served in any war or armed conflict 
in which the United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under honorable 
circumstances from active service if, as a result of military service, the person is blind, paraplegic 
or a double or quadruple amputee or has a service connected disability declared by the United 
States Veteran’s Administration or its successor to be a total one hundred percent permanent 
disability; or ( 3 ) any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the armed 
forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year. For purp oses of this 
subsection, “reserve component of the armed forces” shall mean the United States Army 
Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United States Marine Corps Reserve, United States 
Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air Force Reserve, The Pennsylvania  Army National 
Guard or the Pennsylvania Air National Guard. 
