LOCAL SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE VI 
TAXPAYER REMEDIES 

SECTION 601 – TREASURER’S HEARING 
Any taxpayer aggrieved by an assessment by the Treasurer shall, within ninety (90) days after the 
date of notice of the assessment, request a Treasurer’s Hearing on a form obtained from the 
Treasurer for that purpose. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8431. The Treasurer  may  on  his/her  own  initiative  
cite a taxpayer for a hearing. 
 
a. Any taxpayer who fails to request a Treasurer’s Hearing within a timely manner, waives 
the right to contest any element of the assessment, and that party’s failure to challenge 
the Treasurer’s adjudication will be construed as an admission by that party as to the 
propriety of the assessment. 
 
b. The written petition for reassessment shall contain at minimum: 
 
1. The taxpayer’s name, address, and daytime telephone number. 
2. The taxpayer’s account and/or social security number. 
3. A copy of the assessment notice the taxpayer received from the Finance Department. 
4. A detailed explanation consisting of the reason or reasons the taxpayer disagrees with 
the assessment and any documentation necessary to support the taxpayer’s claims. 
5. Taxpayer’s signature. 
c. The completed petition should be mailed to: 
TREASURER HEARINGS 
TREASURER – CITY OF PITTSBURGH 
414 GRANT ST 
PITTSBURGH PA 15219-2476 
d. Any taxpayer may request a Treasurer’s Hearing so that his tax refund request can be 
reviewed. 
 
e. The Treasurer will abate any penalties and interest only in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. § 
8428. 
 
f. The Treasurer will issue its decision within 60 days of the receipt of the taxpayer’s complete 
and accurate petition form. 

SECTION 602 - APPEALS
Any taxpayer aggrieved by the decision of the Treasurer, following a hearing, shall have the
right to make an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in accordance with
the Taxpayers Bill of Rights. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8434. This appeal must be commenced within thirty
(30) days of the date of the Treasurer’s decision. If no such appeal is timely filed, the aggrieved
party waives his right to contest any element of the Treasurer’s adjudication, and that party’s
failure to challenge the same will be construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety
of the Treasurer’s decision. No hearing or appeal will operate to suspend the accrual of penalty
and interest from the date the tax was due to the date it is actually paid.

SECTION 603 – PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST
The Treasurer will accept payments of disputed tax amounts under protest pending appeals;
however, any request for refund of such monies must be filed in accordance with Section 604.

SECTION 604 - REFUNDS
a. A taxpayer who has overpaid the Local Services Tax, or who is not liable for the Local
Services Tax, may file a written request with the Department of Finance for a refund or a
credit of the tax. A request for refund or a credit shall be made within three (3) years of
the due date for filing the return or one (1) year after actual payment of the tax, whichever
is later. If no return is required, the request shall be made within three (3) years after the
due date for payment of the tax or within one (1) year after actual payment of the tax,
whichever is later. All refunds shall be processed consistently with Section 2 of the Local
Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.301.1(f)(9)(vii) and the Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53
Pa.C.S § 8426.
b. For amounts paid as a result of a notice assessing or informing a taxpayer of an
underpayment, a written request for a refund shall be filed with the Department of
Finance within one (1) year of the date of the payment.
c. Refunds made within seventy-five (75) days of a refund request or seventy-five (75) days
after the last day the employer is required to remit the local services tax for the last
quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall not be subject to interest.
d. In general, refunds will not be issued to employers unless the employer provides proof that
the overpayment has been refunded to the person from whom the tax was originally
withheld. If the employer can demonstrate that it made a computation error on the return
and show that the underlying tax was not withheld from any person, the refund can be
issued to the employer.

SECTION 605 – SAVINGS CLAUSE AND SEVERABILITY
If a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision of these regulations, or
the application of any provision to any circumstances, to be illegal or unconstitutional, the other
provisions in these regulations, or the application of such provision to other circumstances, shall
remain in full force and effect. The intent of the Treasurer is that the provisions of these
regulations shall be severable and that they would have been adopted if any such illegal or
unconstitutional provisions had not been included herein.

SECTION 606 – TAXPAYER DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
A copy of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights can be requested in writing at the address below or
downloaded at http://apps.pittsburghpa.gov/finance/10_taxpayers_bill_of_rights.pdf
TREASURER, CITY OF PITTSBURGH
AUDIT SECTION
414 GRANT ST RM 206
PITTSBURGH PA15219-2476
