ARTICLE V 
SUITS FOR COLLECTION, PENALTIES, ETC. 
Section 501. — Suits for Recovery of Unpaid Taxes. 
(a) The following periods of limitations shall apply to suits for collection of
taxes. 
(1) When a return has been filed but no tax paid, any suit brought to
recover the tax due and unpaid shall be filed within three (3) years after the return was 
due or filed, whichever is later. Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to file 
suit for the collection of taxes. 
(2) In the case of a deficiency assessment, suit shall be filed within
three (3) years after the assessment has been made. 
(b) The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) shall not prevent the institution
of a suit for the collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases: 
(1) When no return was filed, there is no limitation.
(2) When the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation.
(3) When there is an understatement of tax liability of twenty -five
(25%) or more, and not due to fraud, suit must be begun within six (6) years. 
(4) A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the due
date. 
Section 502. — Penalty and Interest for Non-payment. 
(a) If, however, any Taxpayer shall fail to make any report and payment as
herein required a penalty at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month for 
each month or a fraction of a whole month on the amount of tax and interest of one 
(1%) percent per month for each month or fraction of a whole month during the period 
in which the tax remains unpaid shall be added to the tax.  In no event shall the 
interest rate assessed exceed the maximum rate allowed by the Municipal Claims and 
Tax Liens Act, 53 P.S. §7143, or applicable law. 
(b) There is no limit or cut off point, for applying penalty and interest.
(c) On any additional tax determined to be due as a result of a deficiency
assessment, penalty and interest will be assessed from the day the tax should have 
been paid to t he date of payment.  Penalty and interest is calculated as described 
above. 
(d) Where suit is brought for the recovery of such tax, the person liable
therefore shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection and the interest and 
penalties herein impo sed. Once due and owing, penalty and interest become part of 
the tax and shall be collected as such. A person’s belief that no tax is due and owing, 
or the failure of any person to receive or obtain the forms required for making the 
returns required under the City Code is not a valid defense to the imposition of penalties 
herein for violation.  Good faith shall not be a defense to the imposition of penalty. Section 503. – Fines and Penalties for Violation of Act. 
(a) Whoever willfully makes any false or untrue statement on the return shall,
upon summary conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than five 
hundred dollars ($500.00) or to undergo imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) 
days. 
(b) Whoever willfully fails or refuses to appear before the Treasurer, in
person with his books, records or accounts for  examination when required under the 
provisions of the Institution and Service Privilege Tax Ordinance, to do so, or who 
willfully refuses to permit inspection of the books, records or accounts of any services 
in custody or control,  when the right to make such inspection by the Treasurer is 
requested, shall upon summary conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not 
more than Five Hundred Dollars  ($500.00), or to undergo imprisonm ent for not more 
than thirty (30) days. 
(c) Whoever willfully fails or refuses to file a return required by the Institution
and Service Privilege Tax Ordinance , shall, upon summary conviction thereof, be 
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or undergo 
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days. 
Section 504. – Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive 
The remedies provided in this Article are not mutually exclusive.  The utilization by the 
Treasurer of one remedy does not preclude utilization of the other. 
Moreover, use of either or both of the remedies provided in these Sections does not 
preclude the use by the City of Pittsburgh of any other legal or administrative procedure 
which can bring about compliance by the Taxpayer with the provisions of Chapter 241 
of the Pittsburgh Code and these regulations. 
Once it has been determined that that a Taxpayer owes a tax, the Treasurer will take 
all actions legally permitted to enforce its claim. Such action may include obtaining  
additional information, auditing Taxpayer records, entering into a settlement of the 
disputed amount of the tax, or obtaining liens on the Taxpayer’s property, wage 
attachments, levies, and seizures and sales of the Taxpayer’s property in appropriate 
circumstances. The Treasurer may enter into a written agreement with the Taxpayer for 
payment of the tax in installments if the Treasurer believes that such an agreement will 
facilitate collection. The Treasurer may also impose interest and applicable penaltie s 
on the tax due, and may seek criminal charges in appropriate circumstances.   