ARTICLE IV 
DETERMINATION OF TAX BASE 
Section 401. — Inclusions. 
The tax is imposed on every person engaging in any Institutional or non-profit Service 
in the City of Pittsburgh.  The tax is not imposed on Exempt Institutions.   
Section 402.  –   Pittsburgh Receipts. 
(a) General.  Except for receipts associated with interstate commerce,
receipts from any transaction shall b e attributable to Pittsburgh, if any event forming a 
part of the transaction occurs within Pittsburgh  or the taxpayer’s only office is located 
within the City and the Service is offered from a Pittsburgh location. 
(b) Any receipts arising from Institutional on non-profit service to the general
public or any select or limited number thereof, is taxable if a charge is made.  Intrastate 
receipts from services which are the result of business activities carried on through a 
branch office located outside Pittsburgh, are taxable if such services are performed in 
Pittsburgh if the service is offered from the City. 
(c) Persons engaging in any Institutional or non -profit service be it
professional, commercial , or personal services, are subject to the  tax. If a  person 
engaging in any Institutional or non-profit service only maintains a place of business in 
the City of Pittsburgh, the entire receipts from intrastate activity in the Commonwealth 
from personal services must be included in the measure of the tax, wh ether or not the 
services are performed in Pittsburgh. Receipts will be deemed attributable to Pittsburgh, 
if they result from the efforts of employees who work in,  or from or are attached to 
taxpayer's Pittsburgh place of business.  If any taxpayer is subject to Privilege tax in two 
or more jurisdictions in Pennsylvania, he may request a ruling from the Treasurer  to 
address the issue of potential double taxation.  
(d) Receipts associated with interstate commerce shall be apportioned to
the City by multiplying total receipts earned everywhere times the City Apportionment 
percentage.  The City Apportionment percentage is the sum of the following three 
apportionment factors:  Payroll Percentage factor , Property Percentage factor , and 
Sales Percentage factor, divided by three. If one of the percentage factors is zero, the 
denominator shall be two.  If two of the percentage factors are zero, the dominator shall 
be one.  In no event can a percentage factor be less than zero. 
(1) The Payroll Percentage factor shall be payroll reported by the
taxpayer subject to City local earned income tax divided by total payroll reported on 
Federal Form 940.  If the taxpayer only has one office in the Commonwealth and that 
office is in the City, the numerator of the Payroll percentage factor shall be total payroll 
reported to the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue. 
(2) The Property Percentage factor shall be the sum of tangible
property located in the City divided by the sum of tangible property located everywhere 
in the United States, determined as of December 31.  Property shall be recorded at its 
original cost before any depreciation, amortization, or cost depletion.  Leased property shall be recorded as an item of tangible property at eight (8) times annual rent for the 
leased property.  Movable property is in the City if it is in the City on December 31 of 
the calendar year.  If the taxpayer only has one office in the Commonwealth and that 
office is in the City, the numerator of the Property pe rcentage factor shall be sum of 
tangible property located in the Commonwealth. 
(3) The Sales Percentage factor shall be gross receipts from
Services provided in the City or offered from a City location divided by gross receipts 
everywhere.  If additional guidance is required with regard to the definition of Sales, 
the taxpayer shall follow the practice of the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue 
under the Corporate Net Income Tax provisions of the Tax Reform Act, 72 P.S. § 7401, 
so long as such practice is not inconsistent with the purposes of the Privilege Tax. 
(4) A taxpayer is engaged in interstate commerce if it is subject to tax
in another jurisdiction , outside the Commonwealth,  on its net income or on its gross 
receipts.  A taxpayer can show it is subject to tax in another jurisdiction by providing 
copies of tax returns  filed with taxing jurisdictions outside the Commonwealth.   If 
intrastate receipts are co -mingled with interstate activity, all receipts shall be 
considered interstate receipts. 
(5) If the application of the City apportionment percentage  results in
the same gross receipts of the Taxpayer being taxable, for gross receipts or privilege 
tax purposes,  by two or more jurisdictions  in the United States , the Taxpayer may 
approach the Treasurer for a ruling to avoid this double taxation, such as receiving a 
credit for gross receipts or privilege taxes paid elsewhere, or by a modification of the 
City apportionment percentage.   No credit will be granted by the City for net income 
taxes, excise taxes, or transaction taxes paid to another jurisdiction. 