PAYROLL TAX REGULATIONS 
 
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION 101 – DEFINITIONS 
The following words and phrases when used in these regulations shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: 
ASSOCIATION – Partnership, limited partnership, business trust, limited liability company, or 
any other form of unincorporated business or enterprise owned or operated by two or more 
persons. 
BUSINESS – activity, enterprise, profession, trade or undertaking of any nature conducted or 
engaged in, or ordinarily conducted or engaged in, with the object of gain, benefit or 
advantages, whether direct or indirect, to the taxpayer or to another or ot hers. The term shall 
include subsidiary or independent entities which conduct operations for the benefit of others 
and at no profit to themselves, nonprofit businesses, and trade associations.  Only Payroll 
Expense associated with a Business that conducts business within the City is subject to tax. 
BUSINESS WITHIN THE CITY - A person shall be deemed to be conducting business within 
the City if one engages, hires, employs or contracts with one or more individuals as employees, 
Partners, or is self-employed and, in addition, does at least one of the following: (1) maintains 
a fixed place of business within the City; (2) owns or leases real property within the City for 
purposes of such business; (3) maintains a stock of tangible, personal property in the City for 
sale in the ordinary course of business; (4) conducts continuous solicitation within the City 
related to such business; or (5) utilizes the streets of the City in connection with the operation 
of such business, other than for the m ere transportation from a site outside the City, through 
the City, to a destination outside of  the City. A person shall not be deemed to be engaged in 
business solely by reason of the receipt of Passive Income for which no services are rendered.  
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(b).  For persons who perform services within and 
without the City, Payroll Expense shall be apportioned in accordance with Section 102 of these 
regulations. 
CHARITY – a charitable organization that qualifies for tax exempt ion pursuant to the act of 
November 26, 1997 (P.L. 508, No 55), known as the “Institutions of Purely Public Charity Act”, 
10 P.S. § 371, that provides the evidence required by 10 P.S. § 376(a). 
CITY – the area within the city limits of the City of Pittsburgh. 
COMPENSATION – salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, net earnings and incentive 
payments, whether based on profit or otherwise, fees, tips and any other form of remuneration 
earned for services rendered, whether paid directly or through an agent, and whether in cash 
or in property or the right to receive property , excluding any Passive Income  received by 
Partners or Self-employed persons.   
The Compensation of a Partner or Self-employed person is that person’s Taxable Distributions 
from each separate Business carried on within the City. 
  
DISTRIBUTIONS – drawing account; the owner’s account for recording any withdrawals. 
 DRAWING ACCOUNT – a temporary capital account, set up in the name of a Partner or Self-
employed person from which the individual can withdraw money or other assets in anticipation 
of profit of the business. 
EMPLOYEE – any individual in the service of an Employer, under an appointment or contract 
of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or writte n, whether lawfully or unlawfully 
employed.   
Individuals who may be classified as an independent contractor under the tax reporting rules 
associated with IRS Form 1099-MISC, can be re-classified as Employees for purposes of this 
tax.  I rrespective of the common law tests for determining the existence of an independent 
contractor relationship, an individual performing work or service for Compensation shall be 
deemed to be an Employee of the person for whom the work or service is performed unless: 
(1) such i ndividual has been and will continue to be free from control or direction over the 
performance of such work or service, under his/her appointment of contract of hire or 
apprenticeship; (2) such work or service is outside the usual course of the business of  the 
person for which such service is performed; or, (3) such individual is customarily engaged in 
an independently established trade, occupation, business or profession.   A Partner or Self -
employed person is not an Employee. 
 
EMPLOYER – any person conducting Business within the City.  An Exempt Employer is not 
an Employer under these regulations.  A Partnership is an Employer as to its Employees and 
as to any of its Partners providing service in the City.  A Partner, conducting one or more 
businesses within the City through a Partnership, where the Partnership does not file a Payroll 
Tax return with the City, is an Employer.  Any Self-Employed Person conducting one or more 
Business within the City is an Employer. 
 
Any person who is classified as an em ployer under the Pennsylvania Personal Income Tax 
statute is an Employer under these regulations. 72 P.S. § 7301 (h).  The term Employer 
includes any person that makes an election under 26 U.S.C. § 3504 to act as a payroll agent, 
or any person who  both withholds and  remits the City local earned income tax, 53 P.S. § 
6924.501, or the City local services tax, 53 P.S. § 6924.301.1(9)(v), on behalf of another.  53 
P.S. § 6924.303(j).   To decide issues involving joint employers, the City will look to the 
guidance provided under the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 C.F.R. § 791.2 ( 85 FR 2820 , 
effective March 16, 2020). 
 
For example, a payroll reporting company that is not a common law employer of the workers 
of another unless it is: (a) an employer of those workers under 72 P.S. § 7301(h) or (b) the 
joint employer of those workers. 
 
EXEMPT EMPLOYER – any person that is a Governmental Entity.  A contractor or consultant, 
classified as a Partner , a Self -employed person,  or a person receiving Form 1099 -MISC, 
providing services to an Exempt Employer is not itself exempt  merely because he or she 
derives service revenue from a Governmental Entity. 
 
GUARANTEED PAYMENTS – payments to Partners by the Partnership for services that are 
determined without regard to the net income of the Partnership.  For example, health insurance 
premiums paid by the Partnership on behalf of any Partner are Guaranteed Payments because 
they are determined without regard to the net income of the Partnership. 
 GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY – any ag ency, authority, department, or instrumentality of the 
federal government or of another State, and any unit of government listed under 101 Pa. Code 
§ 23.221. 
 
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE – the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Public Law 99- 514), as 
amended, 26 U.S.C. § 1, and following, as it was in effect on January 1, 2020.  Any citation to 
regulations issued under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 C.F.R. § 1, and following, 
refers to the regulations in effect on January 1, 2020. 
 
NET DISTRIBUTION – the amount of a Partner’s or Self-employed person’s draws from net 
income from one or more Businesses that have activities in the City shall be reported for the 
Payroll Expense Tax.   For purposes of this regulation, TAXABLE DISTRIBUTIONS are limited 
by the sum of draws or net income for that Partner or Self-employed person, whichever is less. 
If the Partner’s or Self-Employed person’s Net Distribution exceeds that individual’s share of 
net profits from a particular Business, the excess draw is a return of capital. A return of capital 
is not taxable because this is a liquidation of a Partner’s or Self-employed person’s assets by 
the owner.  A Partner’s Taxable Distributions shall include a partner’s share of Guaranteed 
Payments from the Partnership.  Taxable Distributions shall be determined using the same tax 
accounting method used to report taxable income for Pennsylvania Personal Income Tax 
purposes, Tax Reform Code of 1971.  Taxable Distributions from a Business are presumed to 
be derived from the current year’s net income of that Business. 
 
PARTNER – an individual owner or member in a Partnership.   A Partner will owe tax based 
on Taxable Distributions.  A Partner is not taxed on his or her Passive Income. 
 
PARTNERSHIP – an unincorporated entity, joint venture, business trust, general partnership, 
limited partnership, limited liability company, syndicate, or any other unincorporated 
association, with two or more owners that is taxed for Pennsylvania state income purposes as 
a pass-through entity.  Tax Reform Act of 1971, 72 P.S. § 7401 (definition of a “Corporation”).  
An unincorporated entity, with one owner, that is treated under the federal “check-the-box” as 
a disregarded entity is not a Partnership.  26 C.F.R. § 301.7701 -3 (as it was in effect on 
January 1, 2020).  See, Tax Reform Act of 1971, 72 P.S. § 7307.21.  An unincorporated entity, 
with one or more owners, that has made the federal “check-the-box” election to be taxed as a 
“corporation” is not a Partnership but it may be an Employer. 
 
PASSIVE INCOME  – Items of i ncome earned by a  Partner or Self -employed person from 
interest (not derived from working capital investments), dividends, capital gains (except for an 
individual who is considered a trader and not an investor) , ground rents, royalties associated 
with the development of natural resources through a non-operating interest, retirement income 
earned after retirement, and real estate rental income where substantial services are not 
provided to tenants, is non-taxable Passive Income.  In determining whether any portion of net 
profits from a Business may constitute Compensation or non -taxable Passive Income, the 
Treasurer will follow the guidance issued under Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. § 7303(a), 
and the PA Personal Income Tax Return Guide, except where such guidance is inconsistent 
with the purposes of the Payroll Tax .  Income earned by a Partner or by a Self-employed 
person, is not Passive Income if the business provides professional services (e.g. law, 
accounting, architectural, professional engineering, actuarial, or medical services) or personal 
services to customers, unless the Partner or Self-Employed person is retired, based on age or 
years of service, and does not provide services to the business.  Guaranteed Payments made 
to a Partner are not Passive Income.  Payments made to a retiring Partner under Section 736 
of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 736, are Passive Income.   The Passive Income exclusion only applies to Partners and Self -employed persons, but not to Employees whose 
Compensation is reported to the taxing authorities on a Form W-2 or Form 1099-MISC. 
 
PAYROLL EXPENSE – the total Compensation paid, including salaries, wages, net 
distributions, commissions, bonuses, stock options and other compensation to all individuals 
who during any tax year, perform work or render services in whole or in part in the City of 
Pittsburgh. Employee contributions and deductions resulting from an employee election, 
whether deferred or otherwise, to qualified cash or deferred arrangements, such as an Internal 
Revenue Code Section 401( k) retirement plan or Internal Revenue Code Section 125  
“cafeteria plan”, do not reduce total Compensation . Compensation meeting the definition of 
earned income would be part of the Payroll Expense Tax  associated with a  particular 
Employee who is not a Partner or a Self-employed person.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 
6924.501 (“Earned Income”).  The Payroll Tax is on gross payroll  of the Employer .  The 
Employers’ portions of federal and state payroll taxes, health insurance premiums, retirement 
plan contributions, etc., are not part of taxable gross payroll.   
 
The Payroll Expense of a Partner or Self -employed person is the cumulative annual Taxable 
Distributions associated with each separate Business  carried on w ithin the City rather than 
“Earned Income” as defined in 53 P.S. § 6924.501. 
 
PERSON – a corporation, Partnership, Partner, Self-employed individual, business trust, 
association, unincorporated entity, estate, trust, foundation or natural person. Whenever used 
in any provision prescribing a fine or penalty the word “person” as applied to Partnerships, 
shall mean  the Partners thereof, and as applied to corporations and unincorporated 
associations, shall mean the officers thereof.  A Governmental Entity is not a Person. 
 
SELF-EMPLOYED – an individual  who earns  Compensation from one or more separate 
Businesses carried on within the City, other than as an Employee or as a Partner.  The single 
member owner of a n unincorporated entity that is treated as disregarded entity under the 
federal “check-the-box” regulations, 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-3 (as it was in effect on January 1, 
2020), is treated as Self -Employed and not as a Partner.  The Compensation of a Self-
employed individual shall be that person’s Taxable Distributions from each separate business 
reported on Schedules C, E, or F of the Pennsylvania individual income tax Form PA -40, as 
well as any other non-employee Compensation, which is not otherwise reported on Schedules 
C, E, or F.  Passive Income of a Self-employed person is not subject to the Payroll Tax.  If the 
Self-Employed person does not keep records of Taxable Distrib utions, the entire net income 
of each separate Business is presumed to be a Taxable Dis tribution.  Any individual who is 
classified as an Employee, because of the control exercised by the Employer, is not Self -
Employed as to any Compensation associated with that particular Business. 
 
TAX YEAR – a twelve-month period from January 1 to December 31. 
 
TAXPAYER – a person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity required 
hereunder to file a return of payroll expense, or to pay a tax thereon. An Employer, Partner, or 
Self Employed person are a Taxpayer.  An Exempt Employer is not a Taxpayer. 
 
TEMPORARY SEASONAL OR ITINERANT BUSINESS – shall mean an Employer whose 
presence in the City is of a duration of one hundred twenty (120) days or less. 
 
TREASURER – references to the Treasurer in these regulations refer to the Director and /or 
the Department of Finance. The Director holds principal responsibility for tax administration in 
the City of Pittsburgh. The Deputy Director of Finance serves as City Treasurer.  
SECTION 102 – WHO MUST FILE A RETURN 
 
a. The City Code, Title II, Article VII, Chapter 258, imposes a Payroll Tax on all persons 
that engage, hire, employ or contract with one or more individuals, as employees, to 
perform work or render services within the City of Pittsburgh. The Payroll Tax is 
computed on the employer’s payroll  expense.  The Payroll Tax on Partners and Self-
Employed is computed based on Taxable Distributions from any Businesses. 
b. One hundred percent of the payroll expense is attributable to the City of Pittsburgh for 
Employers whose employees perform work or render services exclusively in the City of 
Pittsburgh. 
c. One hundred percent of a Partner’s or Self-employed person’s Taxable Distributions 
are attributable to the City of Pittsburgh for person(s) who have net income from sales 
or services rendered exclusively in the City of Pittsburgh. 
d. For employers whose employees perform work or render services partly within and 
partly outside of the City of Pittsburgh, the method of computing their payroll expense 
attributable to the City of Pittsburgh is to use the perce ntage of the total number of 
working hours employed within the City of Pittsburgh compared to the total number of 
working hours employed within and outside of the City of Pittsburgh for each individual 
employee.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(a). 
e. Employers who have payroll expense consisting of work done within and outside of the 
boundaries of the City of Pittsburgh, but who do not regularly maintain records showing 
hours worked so as to be able to use the apportionment method under subsection (d) 
of this regulation, may use a representative test period or conduct a survey based on 
factual data to arrive at a formula with which to calculate the percentage of payroll 
expense attributable to the City of Pittsburgh. Any formula so established will be subject 
to review and correction by the City of Pittsburgh. A thorough description explaining the 
formula shall be attached to the first return each year. The data supporting the formula 
shall be maintained for at least three (3) years as a part of offi ce records for audit and 
review purposes. 
f. Partners and Self-Employed individuals who have Taxable Distributions generated from 
intrastate sales or services partly within the City of Pittsburgh or partly outside the City 
of Pittsburgh shall report on the Taxable Distributions associated with sales or services 
rendered within the City of Pittsburgh. Where it is impractical to determine the exact 
Taxable Distributions , an apportionment formula may be used. Any formula so 
established will be subject to review a nd correction by the City of Pittsburgh Finance 
Department. The data supporting the formula must be maintained as a part of office 
records for audit and review purposes. A thorough description explaining the formula 
shall be attached to the first return each year. The data supporting the formula shall be 
maintained for at least three  (3) years as a part of office records for audit and review 
purposes. 
g. Partners and Self -employed individuals who have Compensation from sources within 
and without Pennsylvania, may apportion their Compensation to the City using the 
formula used reporting personal income tax on Form PA -40, 61 Pa. Code § 109.5, by 
substituting the word “City” for the “Commonwealth” where necessary.  In making that 
calculation, all intrastate sales and services within Pennsylvania are deemed allocated 
to the City if the Partner ’s or Self-employed individual’s sole office in Pennsylvania is located in the City. 
h. An employer which conducts business in the City of Pittsburgh on a temporary, seasonal 
or itinerant basis shall file a return and pay the tax within ten (10) days of the completion 
of the temporary, seasonal, or itinerant business. 
