ARTICLE IV 
ADMINISTRATION AND 
ENFORCEMENT 
SECTION 401 – POWERS AND DUTIES OF TREASURER (DIRECTOR) 
 
a. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to collect and receive the taxes, fines, and 
penalties imposed by the City Code, Title Two, Article VII, Chapter 241. It shall also 
be the duty of the Treasurer to keep a record showing the date of such receipt. 
 
b. The Treasurer is charged with the administration and enforcement of the provisions 
of the City Code, and is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce 
rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and 
enforcement of the City Code, including provisions for the reexamination and 
corrections of declarations and returns, and of payments alleged or found to be 
incorrect, or as to which an overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred, and 
to prescribe forms necessary for the administration of the City Code. 
 
c. The Treasurer is authorized to issue a ruling upon written request of a taxpayer or 
Producer. 
 
SECTION 402 – EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PRODUCERS 
 
a. Agents designated by the Treasurer are hereby authorized to examine the books, 
papers and records of any Producer or supposed Producer, in order to verify the 
accuracy of any declaration or return, or if no declaration or return was filed, to 
ascertain the tax due. Every Producer or supposed Producer, is hereby directed and 
required to give to the Treasurer, or to any agent designated by him/her, the means, 
facilities and opportunity for such examinations and investigations, as are hereby 
authorized. 
 
b. If records are not available in the City of Pittsburgh to support the returns which were  
filed or which should have been filed, the Producer will be required to make them 
available to the Treasurer either by producing them in a City of Pittsburgh location or 
by paying for the expenses incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to the place where 
the records are regularly kept. 
 
c. Any information gained by the Treasurer, by designated agents, or by any other 
official or agent of the City of Pittsburgh, as a result of any declarations, returns, 
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by the City Code, 
shall be confidential except for official purposes and shall not be released except in 
accordance with a proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law. 
 
SECTION 403 – RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY THE PRODUCER 
 
Producers who collect the Amusement Tax are required to keep such records as will enable 
the filing of true and accurate returns of the tax and such records shall be preserved for a 
period of not less than three (3) years from the filing date or due date whichever is later in 
order to enable the Treasurer or any agent designated by him/her to verify the correctness of the declarations or returns filed. 
 
SECTION 404 – AUDITS 
 
If, as a result of an examination conducted by the Treasurer, a return is found to be incorrect, 
the Treasurer is authorized to assess and collect any underpayments of the Amusement 
Tax.  If no return has been filed and a tax is found to be due, the tax actually due may be 
assessed and collected with or without the formality of obtaining a return from the producer.  
Deficiency assessments (i.e., where producer has filed a return but is found to owe 
additional tax) shall include taxes for up to three (3) years  prior to the date when the 
deficiency is assessed.  Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to the period of 
assessment. 
 
 