ARTICLE IV 
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 
SECTION 401 – POWERS AND DUTIES OF TREASURER 
a. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to collect and receive th e taxes, fines, and penalties 
imposed in accordance with the City Code, Title II, Article VII, Chapter 252. It shall also  
be the duty of the Treasurer to keep a record showing the date of such receipt. 
b. The Treasurer is charged with the administration and enforcement of the provisions of the 
City Code, and is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and 
regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the 
Code, including provisions for the reexaminati on and corrections of declarations and 
returns, and of payments alleged or found to be incorrect, or as to which an overpayment 
is  claimed  or  found  to  have  occurred,  and  to  prescribe  forms  necessary  for      the administration of the Code. 
 
c. The Treasurer is authorized to issue a ruling upon written request of a taxpayer. 
 
SECTION 402 – EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS OF TAXPAYERS AND 
EMPLOYERS 
a. Agents designated by the Treasurer are hereby authorized to examine the books, papers 
and records of any employer or supposed employer, or of any taxpayer or supposed 
taxpayer, in order to verify the accuracy of any declaration or return, or if no declarat ion  
or return was filed, to ascertain the tax due. Every employer or supposed employer, and 
every taxpayer or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to give to the 
Treasurer, or to any agent designated by him, the means, facilities and opportu nity for 
such examinations and investigations, as are hereby authorized. 
b. If records are not available in the City to support the returns which were filed or which 
should have been filed, the taxpayer will be required to make them available to the 
Treasurer either by producing them in a City location or by paying for the expense s 
incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to the place where the records are regularly kept. 
c. A taxpayer or employer has 30 days from the mailing date to respond to written requests 
for information from the City or its agents, unless an extension of time is granted in 
accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. § 8424. 
d. Any information gained by the Treasurer, by designated agents, or by any other official or 
agent of the City, as a result of any declarations, returns, investigations, hearings or 
verifications required or auth orized by the Code, shall be confidential except for official 
purposes, and shall not be released except in accordance with a proper judicial order, or 
as otherwise provided by law. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8437. 
 
SECTION 403 – RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY THE EMPLOYER 
Employers are required to keep such records, including exemption certificates, which will enable 
the filing of true and accurate returns of the Local Services Tax (LS -1 and LS-3). Such records 
shall be preserved for a period of not less than three (3) years fro m the filing date or due date, 
whichever is later, in order to enable the Treasurer or any designated agent to verify the 
correctness of the declarations or returns filed. 
 
SECTION 404 - AUDITS 
If, as a result of an examination conducted by the Treasurer, a return is found to be incorrect,  
the Treasurer is authorized to assess and collect any underpayments of the Local Services Tax. 
If no return has been filed and a tax is found to be due, the tax actually due may be assessed 
and collected with or without the formality of obtaining a return from the taxpayer. Deficiency 
assessments (i.e., where taxpayer has filed a return in good faith but is found to owe additional 
tax) shall include taxes for three (3) years prior to the date when the deficiency is assess ed. 
Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to the period of assessment. Any assessment 
will be issued in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. § 8427 ARTICLE V 
SUITS FOR TAX COLLECTIONS, VIOLATIONS, FINES, INTEREST & PENALTIES 
SECTION 501 – REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE 
The remedies provided in Section 502 or Section 505 are not mutually exclusive. The utilization 
by the Treasurer of one remedy does not preclude utilization of the other.  Moreover, use     
of either or both of the remedies provided in these Sections does not preclude the use by the 
City of any other legal or administrative procedure whic h can bring about compliance by the 
taxpayer with the provisions of Chapter 252 of the Code. 
SECTION 502 – SUITS FOR RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES 
The Treasurer may sue in the name of the City, in law or in equity, for the recovery of those 
taxes due and unpaid under the provisions of the Local Services Tax, to compel the production 
of records or to enforce any other provisions of the Code, Title II, Article I, Chapter 211. 
Once it has been determined that that a taxpayer owes a tax, the Treasurer will take all actions 
legally permitted to enforce its claim. Such action may include obtaining additional information, 
auditing taxpayer records, entering into a settlement of the disputed amount of the tax, or 
obtaining liens on the taxpayer’s property, wage attachmen ts, levies, and seizures and sales 
of the taxpayer’s property in appropriate circumstances. The Treasurer may enter into a written 
agreement with the taxpayer for payment of the tax in installments if the Treasurer believes 
that such an agreement will faci litate collection. The Treasurer may also impose interest and 
applicable penalties on the tax due, and may seek criminal charges in appropriate 
circumstances.  See, Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.702. 
SECTION 503 - LIMITATIONS 
a. The following periods of limitations shall apply to suits for collection of taxes. 
1. Where a return was filed  but no tax paid, any suit  brought to recover the  tax due   
and unpaid shall begin within three (3) years after the return was due or filed, 
whichever is  later. 
2. In the case of a deficiency assessment, within three (3) years after the assessment  
has  been made. 
b. The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) should not prevent the institution of a suit for 
the collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases: 
1. When no return was filed, there is no limitation. 
2. When the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation. 
3. When there is an understatement of tax liability of twenty -five percent (25%) or more, 
and not due to fraud, suit must begin within six (6) years. 
c. Deficiency assessments (i.e., where taxpayer has filed a return in good faith but is found 
to owe additional tax) shall include taxes for three  (3) years prior to  the  date  when 
the deficiency is assessed. Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to the 
period of assessment. A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the 
due date. 

SECTION 504 – PENALTY AND INTEREST 
a. If for any reason the Local Services Tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate       
of twelve percent (12%) per annum on the amount of tax and an additional penalty of 
five percent (5%) per month for each month or fraction of a month during the perio d in 
which the tax remains unpaid shall be added to the tax. 53 P.S. § 6924.706. The 
penalty shall not exceed fifty percent (50%). In no event shall the interest rate 
assessed exceed the maximum rate allowed by the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens 
Act, 53 P.S. § 7143, or applicable law. 
b. Penalty and Interest on Deficiency Assessment. On any additional tax determined to 
be due as a result of a deficiency assessment, penalty and interest will be assessed 
from the day the tax should have been paid to the date of payment. Penalty and 
interest is calculated as described in paragraph (a) above. Where suit is brought for 
the recovery of such tax, the person  liable therefore shall,  in  addition, be liable for  
the costs of collection and the interest and penalties he rein imposed. A person’s belief 
that no tax is due and owing, or the failure of any person to receive or obtain the forms 
required for making the returns required under the City Code, Chapter 211, is not a 
valid defense to the imposition  of  penalties her ein for violation.  Good faith shall not 
be a defense to the imposition of penalty. 
 
SECTION 505 – FINES AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE PROVISIONS 
OF TITLE TWO, PITTSBURGH CODE 
a. Violations – No person shall: 
1. Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any d eclaration or file a return required under the City 
Code; 
2. Refuse to permit the Treasurer or his/her designee to examine the books, records or 
accounts of any business, taxable or otherwise, to determine liability; 
3. Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return or attempt to do anything to avoid full 
disclosure of the amount of tax due to avoid payment in whole or in part, of the Local 
Services Tax; 
4. Divulge information, which is confidential under Chapter 201.06 of the Code; or 
5. Fail to make any payment when it is due. 
b. Fines 
1. When a person has been adjudged in violation of the applicable provisions by a member 
of the minor judiciary, the person shall be fined not more than five hundred ($500.00) 
dollars and costs for each offense, and in default of payment thereof may be impris oned 
for not more than fifty (50) days. 
 
2. The fines imposed under this Section shall be in addition to any other relief granted to the 
City of a monetary nature under the provisions of this Article. 
 
3. Each and every day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense for 
which a fine can be imposed. 

SECTION 506 – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN FOR ANY DEFICIENCY 
In the appropriate circumstances, the Treasurer will enter an insta llment payment plan and defer 
further collection action, if the taxpayer enters into a written agreement with the Treasurer. The 
Treasurer will approve installment payment plans only if such a plan is in the best interests of the 
City. The taxpayer must sp ecifically request the installment payment plan from the Treasurer. For 
the required terms of any installment plan See, Second Class City Treasurer’s Sale and Collection 
Act, 53 P.S. § 27207 and Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8436. If the taxp ayer fails to 
abide by the terms of the installment payment plan, the Treasurer may demand immediate payment 
of tax, penalty and interest. 
 
 

