ARTICLE III 
TAXABILITY 
Section 301.—Period Used in Calculating the Tax. 
(a) The tax is measured by the amount of service transacted by the Taxpayer
or Institution during the entire receding calendar year, except for those taxpayers: 
(1) who were not in service during the whole of the preceding calendar
year, or 
(2) who began services during the current calendar year, or
(3) whose service is temporary, seasonal or itinerant.
(b) Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance, who has
commenced its service at least one (1) full year prior to the beginning of any tax year 
shall, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of April , following and annually thereafter, 
file with the Treasurer, a return setting forth the name, the service rendered, the person 
or Institution address and such other information as may be necessary, in arriving at 
the annual gross volume of services transa cted by it during the preceding year and 
amount of tax due. 
(c) Every person or Institution subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance,
who has commenced its service less than one (1) full year prior to the beginning of the 
tax year shall, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of April , following, file with the 
Treasurer a return and compute its annual gross receipts, for such tax year upon the 
gross receipts generated by the services transacted within the City during the first 
month it engages in such service activity multiplied by twelve (12). 
(d) Every person subject to the tax imposed by Ordinance, who commences,
subsequent to the beginning of the tax year, shall within forty days from the date of 
commencing such service, file a return with the Treasurer setti ng forth the name, the 
service rendered, the institution address and such other information as may be 
necessary in arriving at the actual volume of services transacted by it during the first 
month of service and amount of tax due. 
(e) Every person or Institution subject to the payment of the tax imposed by
this Ordinance who engages in a service temporary, seasonal or itinerant by its nature 
shall, with seven (7) days from the day it completes such service, file a return with the 
Treasurer setting forth  its name, service, the person or Institution address and such 
other information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual gross volume of service, 
during the tax period and the amount of tax due. 
Section 302. – Taxable Gross Receipts 
(a) Cash, credits, property of any kind or nature received in or allocable to
The City from any Institution by reason of any transaction or  any service 
without deduction therefrom on account of property sold, materials used, labor, service 
or other cost, interest or discount paid, or any other expense. 
(1) Includes payments from insurance or other third -party payments
for the cost of service.  All forms of government third-party payments, income or grants 
for Service, received by the Institution such as Medicare, Medicaid and General 
Assistance receipts, are subject to tax. 
(2) Excludes Exempt Receipts or receipts of Exempt Institutions.
(b) To assist in the review of Taxable Gross Receipts, th e taxpayer shall
attach a duplicate of any Form 990-T filed with the Internal Revenue Service for the 
most recent period.  