NON-RESIDENT SPORTS USAGE FEES REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 3: PAYMENT

§ 301.  REGISTRATION OF QUALIFIED MANAGING ENTITIES AND 
CONTRACTING PARTIES. 
 
(a)  Every Qualified Managing Entities not registered with the City 
employing or contracting with Nonresidents receiving Earned Income 
within the City shall, within sixty (60) days of first becoming a 
Qualified Managing Entity, register with the Treasurer the Qualified 
Managing Entity’s name, address, and such other information as the 
Treasurer may require.  Every registration shall be made upon a form 
authorized and furnished by the Treasurer.  Every Person completing 
this form shall certify the correctness thereof. 
 
(b)  Every Nonresident Contracting Party not registered with the City 
employing or contracting with Nonresidents receiving Earned Income 
within the City shall, within sixty (60) days of entering into an 
agreement with a Publicly Funded Facility to engage in an event held 
in a Publicly Funded Facility for which compensation is earned, 
register with the Treasurer with the Nonresident Contracting Party’s 
name, address, and any other information as the Treasurer may 
require.  Every registration shall be made upon a form authorized and 
furnished by the Treasurer.  Every Person completing this form shall 
certify the correctness thereof.  
 
§ 302.  COLLECTION OF PAYMENT. 
 
(a)  Sporting Events.  Any Qualified Managing Entity who employs one 
(1) or more Nonresidents who earn compensation as the result of 
services performed within the City that require the use of a Publicly 
Funded Facility, shall deduct monthly, or more often than monthly the 8 
 
usage fee imposed by this chapter based on the earned income paid 
or payable to and/or any compensation attributable to any 
Nonresident Employee.
 
 
Every Qualified Managing Entity shall, on or before April 30 of the 
current year, July 31 of the current year, October 31 of the current 
year, and January 31 of the succeeding year, file a return on a form 
prescribed by the Treasurer and pay to the Treasurer the amount of 
usage fees deducted during the preceding three (3) month periods 
ending March 31 of the current year, June 30 of the current year, 
September 30 of the current year, and December 31 of the current 
year, respectively.
 
 
(b)  Non-Sporting Events.  Any Nonresident Contracting Party who 
enters into a contract for the use of Publicly Funded Facility to 
engage in a non-sporting event for compensation shall deduct from 
the contract, the Usage Fee based on the Earned Income paid or 
payable to and/or any compensation attributable to any Nonresident 
Employee, Nonresident Contracting Party, their agents, or 
associates. 
 
The Nonresident Contracting Party shall on or before April 30 of the 
current year, July 31 of the current year, October 31 of the current 
year, and January 31 of the succeeding year, file a return on a form 
prescribed by the Treasurer shall pay to the Treasurer the amount of 
usage fees deducted during the preceding three (3) month periods 
ending March 31 of the current year, June 30 of the current year, 
September 30 of the current year, and December 31 of the current 
year, respectively.
 
 
(c) The usage fee should not be reported in the local tax box on the  
W-2 form, because this is a fee, not a tax. 
 
(d) Those individuals liable for the usage fee shall be exempt from any 
income tax imposed by a City of the second class pursuant to this Act 
and any such tax imposed under Section 652.1 of the Act of March 
10, 1949 (P.L. 30, No. 14) known as the “Public School Code of 
1949.” 
 
§ 303.  RETURNS. 
(a)  All returns filed shall include information as prescribed in the form 
authorized and furnished by the Treasurer, including but not limited 
to, the names of Employees, Contracting Parties, and/or 
subcontracting parties and their respective home addresses, city 
residency, phone numbers, social security numbers, nature of 
relationship, nature of work performed, dates of work performed, and 
locations of work performed. 
 
(b) Failure to complete a form is deemed non-filing. 
