NON-RESIDENT SPORTS USAGE FEES REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 4: ADMINISTRATION 
 
ยง 401.  POWER OF TREASURER. 
 
(a) It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to collect and receive the usage 
fees, fines, and penalties imposed by the Code.  It shall also be the 
duty of the Treasurer to keep a record showing the date of such 
receipt. 
 
(b) The Treasurer is charged with the administration and enforcement of 
the Code and these Regulations.  The Treasurer is empowered to 
prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce regulations pertaining to 
administration and enforcement of the Code.  This power includes, 
but is not limited to:
 
 
(1) The power to reexamine and correct declarations and returns, 
payments alleged or found to be incorrect, and overpayments 
claimed or found to have occurred;
 
 
(2) The power to examine the books, papers, records, or other 
relevant documentation of any supposed Qualified Managing 
Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party, or any user or 
supposed user in accordance with these Regulations and as 
described in Section 403 of these Regulations;
 
 
(3) The power to prescribe forms necessary for the administration 
of these Regulations; and
 10 
 
 
(4) The power to issue citations for violations of these Regulations 
and institute penalties, including but not limited, to those 
prescribed in Section 502.
 
 
(c) The Treasurer is authorized to issue a ruling upon written request of a 
user. 
 
(d)     The Treasurer shall annually provide to all Publicly Funded Facilities 
a copy of applicable City Code, City Regulations, and current policies 
related to the Nonresident Sports Facilities Usage Fee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ยง 402.  RECORDS REQUIRED. 
 
Qualified Managing Entity and Contracting Parties subject to the 
requirements of these Regulations are required to keep such records as 
will enable the filing of true and accurate returns of the Usage Fee, and 
such records shall be preserved for a period of not less than three (3) years 
from the filing date or due date, whichever is later, in order to enable the 
Treasurer to verify the correctness of those declarations or returns.
 
 
ยง 403.  EXAMINATION OF RECORDS. 
 
 (a) The Treasurer and agents designated by him or her are hereby 
authorized to examine the books, papers, and records of any 
supposed Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting 
Party, or of any user or supposed user, in order to verify the accuracy 
of any declaration or return, or if no declaration or return was filed, to 
ascertain the fee due.  Every Person is directed and required to give 
the Treasurer and/or his or her designees the means, facilities, and 
opportunity for such examinations and investigations as are hereby 
authorized.  
 
(b) If records are not available to the City to support the returns which 
were filed or should have been filed, the Qualified Managing Entity or 
Nonresident Contracting Party will be required to make them 
available to the Treasurer either by producing them in a City location 
or by paying for the expenses incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to 
the place where the records are regularly kept. 
 
(c) Any information gained by the Treasurer, or by any other official or 
agent of the City, as a result of any declarations, returns, 
investigations, hearings, or verifications required or authorized by the 
Code shall be confidential except for official purposes and shall not 
be divulged except in accordance with a proper judicial order, or as 
otherwise provided by law.
 
 
ยง 404.  AUDITS. 
 
If, as a result of an examination conducted by the Treasurer, a return is 
found to be incorrect, the Treasurer is authorized to issue a deficiency notice 
and collect any underpayments of the usage fee.  If no return has been filed 
and an amount is found to be due, the amount may be billed and collected 
with or without the formality of obtaining a return.  Notices of deficiency ( i.e., 
where the return has been filed, but found to be deficient) shall include 
deficiencies for up to  three(3) years prior to the date when the notice is 
issued.  Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to the period of 
notification of deficiency. 
 
