NON-RESIDENT SPORTS USAGE FEES REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS 

§ 101.  AUTHORIZATION. 
 
Pursuant to “The Local Tax Enabling Act,” Act 551 of 1965, P.L. 1257; 53 
P.S. § 6924, and the City Code, Title II, Article X, Chapter 271, the 
Treasurer of the City of Pittsburgh is authorized to prescribe, adopt, 
promulgate, and enforce regulations pertaining to the administration and 
enforcement of the Code. 
 
§ 102.  DEFINITIONS. 
 
The following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations when used in 
these Regulations shall have the meaning and effect ascribed to them in 
this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
CITY—the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  
CITY CODE—City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Code of Ordinances, Title II, 
Article X, Chapter 271. 
NONRESIDENT CONTRACTING PARTY—a person not domiciled within 
the City of Pittsburgh who enters into a binding agreement with a Publicly 
Funded Facility or facility manager to engage in or conduct a non-sporting 
event for compensation.  This may include, but is not limited to, 
entertainers, performers, touring companies, promoters, booking agents, 
artist management companies, and other related positions. 
CURRENT YEAR—the calendar year for which the usage fee is levied . 
DOMICILE— the voluntary fixed place of habitation of a person.  Actual 
residence is not necessarily domicile.  In the intention of the user, domicile 
is permanent rather than transitory.  In cases of a business, the domicile is 
the place considered to be the center of business affairs and the place from 
which functions are discharged. 
EARNED INCOME —salaries, wages, commis sions, bonuses, incentive 
payments, fees, tips, and all other forms of compensation, whether based 4 
 
on profits or otherwise, earned by a P erson or a personal representative of 
a Person for services rendered, whether directly or through an agent, and 
whether in cash or in property.  This does not include wages or 
compensation paid to persons on active military service, periodic payments 
for sickness and disability other than regular wages received during a 
period of sickness or disability, or payments arising  under workers’ 
compensation acts, occupational disease acts, and similar legislation.
 
QUALIFIED MANAGING ENTITY — any person, partnership, association, 
corporation, institution, governmental body or unit or agency, or any other 
entity employing one (1) or m ore Nonresident Contracting Parties  for 
salary, wage, commission, or other compensation.
 
EMPLOYEE—any person in the service of an Qualified Management 
Entity, under an appointment or contract of hire or subcontract, express or 
implied, oral or written, whether lawfully or unlawfully employed.
 
NONRESIDENT—any person domiciled outside of the City.  
PERSON—any corporation, partnership, business trust, association, 
estate, trust, foundation, or natural person.  Whenever used in any 
provision prescribing a fine or penalty, the word “person” as applied to 
partnerships shall mean the partners thereof, and as applied to 
corporations and unincorporated associations shall mean the officers 
thereof.
 
PROMOTER—any business entity, and any agent or representative of the 
business entity, who engages with a Publicly Funded Facility regarding the 
organization, marketing, or offering for sale of tickets to an event. 
PUBLICLY FUNDED FACILITY —  any sports stadium or arena in the City 
which has been constructed or maintained, in whole or in part, through th e 
use of public funds. Publicly Funded Facilities include: 1001 -1035 5TH 
AVE (PPG Paints  Arena), 1000 FORT DUQUESNE BLVD (David 
Lawrence Convention Center), 100 ART ROONEY DR ( Heinz Field), 115 
FEDERAL ST ( PNC Park), 3719 TERRACE ST (Peterson Event Center ), 
and 400 N SHORE DR (Stage AE). 

RESIDENT—any person domiciled within the City.  

TREASURER—the Deputy Director of the Department of Finance, his 
deputies, and their agents.  The Deputy Director of Finance serves as City 
Treasurer. 

USAGE FEE— Sports Facility Usage Fee. 

USER—any  person required hereunder to remit the usage fee. 

