NON-RESIDENT SPORTS USAGE FEES REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 2: IMPOSITION OF FEE 
 
§ 201.  LEVY AND RATE. 
 
A fee for general revenue purposes of three (3) percent  of Earned Income 
is hereby imposed on each Nonresident who uses a Publicly Funded 
Facility to engage in athletic event or otherwise render a performance for 
which a Nonresident receives remuneration.   
 
§ 202.  ALLOCATION OF EARNED INCOME. 
 
  
 
(a)     Members of professional athletic teams, other than professional 
football teams calculate a “total games played within the City of Pittsburgh” 
versus “total games played (including exhibition, preseason, regular season 
and post-season games)” fraction. Multiply that fraction against the player’s 
total compensation. In determining “games played” include exhibition 
games that are officially sanctioned by the team’s league office in bot h the 
numerator and denominator of this fraction. 
Earned Income x (Total games played in PGH/Total games played) x .03 
(b)     Members of professional football teams calculate a “total duty days 
within the City of Pittsburgh” versus “total duty days” fraction. Multiply that 
fraction against the player’s total compensation. In determining “duty days”, 
include preseason and regular season practice sessions; pre -season and 
regular season games; and post -season games and practice sessions that 
are officially sa nctioned by the team’s league office in both the numerator 
and denominator of this fraction. 
Earned Income x (Total duty days in PGH/Total duty days) x .03 6 
 
(c)    Non -Player Personnel are apportioned on the basis of working days 
per year. These include tea m employees, such as coaches, trainers and 
any other persons required to travel with the team and perform services on 
behalf of the team; game officials. Divide the total number of working days 
within the city of Pittsburgh by the total number of working d ays in the year 
to arrive at the working days apportionment fraction.  
Earned Income x (Total work days in PGH/Total work days) x .03 
(d) Entertainers are apportioned based on earned income attributable for 
the performance in the city’s Publicly Funded Facility  
Earned Income for performance x .03 
 
(e) In general the taxpayer’s apportionable income for the City of Pittsburgh 
would correspond to the apportionable income reported to PA as earned in 
the City of Pittsburgh. 
 
 
 
§ 203.  WHO MUST FILE. 
 
Every Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party who 
employs or enters into a contract with an Qualified Managing Entity or 
independent contractor who earns compensation as the result of services 
performed within the City, whose services require the use of a Publicly 
Funded Facility to engage in an athletic event or otherwise render a 
performance for which a Nonresident receives Earned Income, is required 
to withhold and remit to the Treasurer the usage fee.  In the event the 
Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party fails, refuses, 
or neglects to withhold or remit the usage fee or any portion thereof, the 
Employee or Nonresident Contracting Party shall be personally liable for 
payment of the Usage Fee and any applicable penalty. 
 
§ 204.  TIME FRAME. 
 
The usage fee imposed under the Code shall be applicable to the Current  
Year. 
 
 
§ 205.  OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLICLY FUNDED FACILITY. 
It shall be the duty of the Person, venue, or entity acting on behalf of the 
Publicly Funded Facility, to provide the Finance Department with all 
relevant contracts and/or contract information in a manner acceptable to 
the Finance Department, and certify correctness thereof, within thirty (30) 
days of finalization of the aforementioned contract.   
