ARTICLE 6: VIOLATIONS 
 
§ 601.  REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE. 
 
The remedies provided in this Article are not mutually exclusive. The utilization by the 
Treasurer of one or more remedies does not preclude utilization another. Moreover, use 
of any or all of the remedies provided in these Sections does not preclude the use by the 
City of any other legal or administrative procedure which can bring about compliance by 
the operator with the provisions of the Code and these Regulations. 
 
Once it has been determined that that a taxpayer owes a tax, the Treasurer will take all 
actions legally permitted to enforce its claim. Such action may include obtaining additional 
information, auditing taxpayer records, entering into a settlement of the disputed amount of 
the tax, or obtaining liens on the taxpayer’s property, wage attachments, levies, and 
seizures and sales of  the taxpayer’s property in appropriate circumstances. The Treasurer 
may enter into a written agreement with the taxpayer for payment of the tax in installments 
if the Treasurer believes that such an agreement will facilitate collection. The Treasurer 
may also impose interest and applicable penalties on the tax due, and may seek criminal 
charges in appropriate circumstances.  See, Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.702. 
 
 
§ 602. PENALTY AND INTEREST. 
 
(a) If for any reason the Parking Tax is not paid in whole or in part when due, a penalty 
at the rate of five percent (5%) per month of the amount of the Parking Tax will be 
added and collected as penalty for every month or fraction thereof during the time 
the Parking Tax goes unpaid, such penalty not to exceed fifty percent (50%). 
Once due and owing, penalty becomes part of the Parking Tax. 
 
(b) In addition to the penalty, interest of one percent (1%) for every month or fraction 
thereof will be added to  the delinquent tax balance which will continue to accrue 
until the full payment of the tax principal is made.  In no event shall the interest rate 
assessed exceed the maximum rate allowed by the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens 
Act, 53 P.S. 7143, or applicable law. 
 
(c) On any additional Parking Fee  determined to be due as a  result of a deficiency 
notice, penalty and interest will be assessed from the day the Parking Tax should 
have been paid to the date of payment. Penalty and interests are calculated in 
Section 602(a) and 602(b), respectively. 
 
(d) Where suit is brought for the recovery of the Parking Tax, the person liable therefor 
shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection, penalties, and interest herein 
imposed. 
 
(e) A person’s belief that no Parking Tax is due and owing, or the failure of any person 
to receive or obtain the forms required for making the returns required by the Code 
is not a valid defense to the imposition of penalties for violation herein.  Good faith 
shall not be a defense to the imposition of penalty. 
 
 § 603. VIOLATIONS AND FINES. 
 
(a) Violations. No person shall violate any provisions of the City Code including, 
but not limited to any violation under Title Seven, Art. VII Section 763 or Title Five, 
Art. VII, Section 548, of the Pittsburgh Code, including, but not limited to: 
 
(1) Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any declaration or file a return required 
under these Regulations; 
 
(2) Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay in part or in whole the Parking Tax when it is 
due as required by these Regulations; 
 
(3) Refuse to permit the Treasurer to examine the books, records  or accounts 
of any business, taxable or otherwise, to determine liability; 
 
(4) Make any incomplete, false, or fraudulent return, or attempt to do anything to 
avoid full disclosure of the amount of tax due, or to avoid payment in 
whole or in part of the Parking Tax; 
 
(5) Divulge information, which is confidential under Chapter 201.06 of the 
Code. 
 
(b) Fines.  Pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended, in addition to any 
other penalties or enforcement of fees: 
 
(1) Any operator who negligently or willfully refuses to file a Parking Tax 
Return as required by these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of 
the third degree and shall, upon conviction by a magistrate, be sentenced 
to a term of imprisonment of not more than one (1) year and/or to pay a fine 
of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the first occurrence, two thousand 
dollars ($2,000) for the second occurrence, and three thousand dollars 
($3,000) for every occurrence thereafter; 
 
(2) Any operator who negligently or willfully makes any false or untrue 
statement on the Parking Tax return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of 
the second degree and shall, upon conviction by a magistrate, be 
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than one (1) year and/or to 
pay a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the first occurrence, two 
thousand dollars ($2,000) for the second occurrence, and three thousand 
dollars ($3,000) for every occurrence thereafter; 
 
(3) Any operator who negligently or willfully fails to remit the entire amount of the 
Parking Tax,  as determined and required by these Regulations, shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and shall, upon conviction by a 
magistrate, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than one (1) 
year and/or to pay a fine of  one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the first 
occurrence, two thousand dollars ($2,000) for the second occurrence, and 
three thousand dollars ($3,000) for every occurrence thereafter; 
 
(4) Any person who willfully fails or refuses to appear before the Treasurer or In person with the requested books, records, accounts, or other materials for 
examination when required by the Code to do so, or who willfully 
refuses to permit inspection of the books, records, accounts, or other 
material in the person’s custody when required by the Code shall, shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction by a magistrate, be 
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) and 
costs for each offence, and in default of payment thereof may be 
imprisoned for not more than fifty (50) days for the first occurrence; 
 
(5) Each and every day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate 
offense for which a fine can be imposed; 
 
(6) The fines and terms of imprisonment imposed under this Section shall be in 
addition to any other relief granted to the City of a monetary nature 
under the provisions of these Regulations. 
 
 
§ 604. SUITS FOR RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES. 
 
The Treasurer may sue in the name of  the City of Pittsburgh, in law or in equity, for the 
recovery of those taxes due and unpaid under the provisions of the Parking Tax, to compel 
the production of records, or to enforce any other provisions of the law. 
 
§ 605. LIMITATIONS. 
 
(a) The following periods of limitations will apply to suits for collection of taxes: 
 
(1) When a return has been filed but no tax paid, any suit brought to recover the 
tax due and unpaid must be filed within three (3) years after the return was 
due or filed, whichever is later. Where no return was filed, there will be no 
limit to file suit for the collection of taxes; 
 
(2) In the case of a deficiency assessment, suit must be filed within three (3) 
years after the assessment has been made. 
 
(b) The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) shall not prevent the institution of a suit for 
the collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases: 
 
(1) Where no return was filed, there is no limitation; 
 
(2) Where the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation; 
 
(3) When there is an understatement of tax liability of twenty-five percent (25%) 
or more, and not due to fraud, suit must be begun within six (6) years after 
the return was due or filed, whichever is later. 
 
(c) A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the due date. 
 
§ 606. – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN FOR ANY DEFICIENCY  
 
In the appropriate circumstances, the Treasurer will enter an installment payment plan and 
defer further collection action, if the taxpayer enters into a written agreement with the Treasurer.  The Treasurer will approve installment pa yment plans only if such a plan is in 
the best interests of the City.  The taxpayer must specifically request the installment 
payment plan from the Treasurer.  For the required terms of any installment plan See, 
Second Class City Treasurer’s Sale and Colle ction Act, 53 P.S. § 27207 and Local 
Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8436.  If the taxpayer fails to abide by the terms of the 
installment payment plan, the Treasurer may demand immediate payment of tax, penalty 
and interest. 