ARTICLE 5: ADMINISTRATION 
 
§ 501. POWERS OF TREASURER. 
 
(a) It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to collect and receive the taxes, fines, and 
penalties imposed by the Code. It shall also be the duty of the Treasurer to keep a 
record showing the date of such receipt and provide the taxpayer with proof of 
payment, which shall be required for license renewal. The Treasurer reserves the 
right to withdraw this proof of payment and notify the Bureau of Building 
Inspections. 
 
(b) The Treasurer is charged with the administration and enforcement of the 
provisions of the City Code and these Regulations. The Treasurer is empowered 
to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to any 
matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the City Code. This 
power includes, but is not limited to: 
 
(1) The power to observe parking spaces in order to verify that the 
information provided by the operator to the Treasurer is an accurate and 
correct representation of the operator’s business operations, including but 
not limited to, the volume of cars in the parking space, the consideration 
being collected, and the consistency of the operator’s reporting procedures; 
 
(2) The power to reexamine and correct declarations and returns, payments 
alleged or found to be incorrect, and overpayments claimed or found to 
have occurred; 
 
(3) The power to examine the books, papers, records, or other relevant 
documentation of any supposed operator, in accordance with these 
Regulations and as described in Section 502; 
 
(4) The power, when records are not available to the City to support the returns 
filed or which should have been filed, to compel the operator to make them 
available to the Treasurer; 
 
(5) The power to prescribe forms necessary for the administration of the Code 
and these Regulations; and 
 
(6) The power to issue citations for violations of these Regulation and institute 
penalties, including but not limited to those prescribed in Article 6 of these 
Regulations. 
 
(c) The Treasurer is authorized to issue a ruling upon written request of any operator. 
 
§ 502.  RECORDS REQUIRED. 
 
Operators subject to the requirements of these Regulations are required to keep such 
records as will enable the filing of true and accurate returns of the Parking Tax, and such 
records shall be preserved for a period of not less than five (5) years from the filing dateor due date, whichever is later, in order to enable the Treasurer to verify the correctness 
of the declarations or returns. 
 
§ 503. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS. 
 
(a) Agents designated by the Treasurer are hereby authorized to examine the books, 
papers, and records of any operator or supposed operator, in order to verify the 
accuracy of any declaration or return, or if no declaration or return was filed, to 
ascertain the tax due. Every operator or supposed operator, is hereby directed and 
required to give to the Treasurer, or to any agent designated by him/her, the 
means, facilities, and opportunity for such examinations and investigations, as are 
hereby authorized. 
 
(b) If records are not available in the City of Pittsburgh to support the returns which 
were filed or which should have been filed, the operator will be required to make 
them available to the Treasurer either by producing them in a City of Pittsburgh 
location or by paying for the expenses incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to the 
place where the records are regularly kept. 
 
(c) The Treasurer may issue and serve subpoenas to carry out these provisions. 
 
(d) Any information gained by the Treasurer, by designated agents, or by any other 
official or agent of the City of Pittsburgh, as a result of any declarations, returns, 
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by the Code, shall 
be confidential except for official purposes and shall not be released except in 
accordance with a proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law. 
 
§ 504.  RECORD RETENTION. 
 
Operators and Providers who collect the Parking Tax are required to keep such records 
as will enable the filing of true and accurate returns of the tax and such records shall be 
preserved for a period of not less than five (5) years from the filing date or due date 
whichever is later in order to enable the Treasurer to verify the correctness of the 
declarations or returns filed. 
 
§ 505.  AUDITS. 
 
If, as a result of an examination conducted by the Treasurer, a return is found to be 
incorrect, the Treasurer is authorized to assess and collect any underpayments of the 
Parking Tax. If no return has been filed and a tax is found to be due, the tax actually due 
may be assessed and collected with or without the formality of obtaining a return from the 
operator or provider. Deficiency assessments (i.e., where operator or provider has filed a 
return but is found to owe additional tax) must include records for up to five (5) years prior 
to the date when the deficiency is assessed. Where no return was filed, there will be no 
limit to the period of assessment.  Any assessment will be issued in accordance with 53 
Pa.C.S. § 8427 
 
(a) If records are not available in the City to support the returns which were filed or 
which should have been filed, the taxpayer will be required to make them 
available to the Treasurer either by producing them in a City location or by 
paying for the expenses incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to the place where the records are regularly kept. 
(b) A taxpayer or employer has 30 days from the mailing date to respond to written 
requests for information from the City or its agents, unless an extension of time is 
granted in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. § 8424. 
(c) Any information gained by the Treasurer, by designated agents, or by any other 
official or agent of the City, as a result of any declarations, returns, 
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by the Code, shall 
be confidential except for official purposes, and shall not be released except in 
accordance with a proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law.  53 
Pa.C.S. § 8437. 
 
 