PAYROLL TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE VI 
TAXPAYER REMEDIES 
 
SECTION 601 – TREASURER HEARINGS 
a. Any Taxpayer aggrieved by an assessment by the Treasurer shall, within ninety 
(90) days after the date of notice of the assessment, request a Treasurer’s Hearing on a form 
obtained from the T reasurer for that purpose. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8431. The Treasurer may on 
his/her own initiative cite a Taxpayer for a hearing. 
b. Any Taxpayer who fails to request a Treasurer’s Hearing within a timely manner, 
waives the right to contest any element of the assessment, and that party’s failure to 
challenge the Treasurer’s adjudication will be construed as an admission by that party as to 
the propriety of the assessment. 
c. The written petition for reassessment shall contain at minimum: 
1. The petitioner’s name, address, and daytime telephone number.  
2. The petitioner’s account and/or social security number.  
3. A copy of the assessment notice the party received from the Finance  
Department.  
4. A detailed explanation consisting of the reason or reasons the petitioner 
disagrees with the assessment and any documentation necessary to support the petitioner’s 
claims.  
5. Petitioner’s signature. 
d. The completed petition should be mailed to: 
TREASURER HEARINGS  
TREASURER – CITY OF PITTSBURGH  
414 GRANT ST  
PITTSBURGH PA 15219-2476 
e. Any Taxpayer may request a Treasurer’s Hearing so that his tax refund request 
can be reviewed. 
f. The Treasurer will abate any penalties and interest only in accordance with 53 
Pa.C.S. § 8428. 
g. The Treasurer will issue its decision within sixty (60) days of the rec eipt of the 
petitioner’s complete and accurate petition form. 
 
SECTION 602 – APPEALS 
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Treasurer, following a hearing, shall have the right 
to make an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in accordance with the 
Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights Act. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8434.  Any appeal must be commenced within thirty 
(30) days of the date of the notice of the Treasurer’s decision. If no such appeal is timely filed, 
the aggrieved party waives his/her right to contest any element of the Treasurer’s adjudication, 
and that party’s failure to challenge the same will be construed as an admission by that party as 
to the propriety of the Treasurer’s decision. No hearing or appeal will operate to suspend the 
accrual of penalty and interest from the date the tax was due to the date it is actually paid. 
 
 SECTION 603 – PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST 
The Treasurer will accept payments of disputed tax amounts under protest pending appeals; 
however, any request for refund of such monies must be filed in accordance with Section 604. 
 
SECTION 604 – REFUNDS 
a. A Taxpayer who has overpaid the Payroll Tax, or who believes he is not liable for the 
Payroll Tax may file a written request on an amended tax return (ET -1) with the 
Department of Finance for a refund or a credit of the tax. A request for refund or a credit 
shall be made within three (3) years of the due date for filing the report or one  year after 
actual payment of the tax, whichever is later. If no report is required, the request shall be 
made within three (3) years after the due date for payment of the tax or within one (1) 
year after actual payment of the tax, whichever is later.   Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights, 
53 Pa.C.S. § 8425(a). 
b. For amounts paid as a result of a notice assert ing or informing a Taxpayer of an 
underpayment, a written request for a refund shall be filed with the Department of Finance 
within one (1) year of the date of the payment.  Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. 
§ 8425(b) 
c. Erroneous Refund Recovery – The Treasurer may sue for recovery of an erroneous 
refund provided such suit is begun two (2) years after making such refund, except that 
the suit may be brought within five (5) years if any part of the refund was induced by fraud 
or misrepresentation of material fact. 
SECTION 605 – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN FOR ANY DEFICIENCY 
In the appropriate circumstances, the Treasurer will enter an installment payment plan and defer 
further collection action, if the Taxpayer enters into a written agreement with the Treasurer. The 
Treasurer will approve installment payment plans only if such a plan is in the best interests of 
the City. The Taxpayer must specifically request the installment payment plan from the 
Treasurer. For the required te rms of any installment plan See, Second Class City Treasurer’s 
Sale and Collection Act, 53 P.S. § 27207 and Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8436.  
If the Taxpayer fails to abide by the terms of the installment payment plan, the Treasurer may 
demand immediate payment of tax, penalty, and interest. 
SECTION 606 – SAVINGS CLAUSE AND SEVERABILITY 
If a final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision of these regulations, or 
the application of any provision to any circumstances, to be illegal or unconstitutional, the other 
provisions in these regulations, or the application of such provision to other circumstances, shall 
remain in full force and effect.  
The intent of the Treasurer is that the provisions of these regulations shall be severable and that 
they would have been adopted if any such illegal or unconstitutional provisions had not been 
included herein. 
