PAYROLL TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE III 
EMPLOYER’S RESPONSIBILITY 

SECTION 301 – PAYROLL TAX LEVIED ON EMPLOYERS 
a. Every Employer not registered with the City of Pittsburgh shall, within fifteen (15) days, 
register with the Treasurer the Employer’s name, address and such other information 
as the Treasurer may require.  The first return for a new business is calculated on the 
Payroll Expense for the portion of the quarter it was in business. 
b. The Payroll Tax is a tax that is levied on Employers.  Under no circumstance may the 
Payroll Tax be deducted from the Employees’ wages. 
c. It may be necessary to include Form 1099’s issued to individuals in the  Employer’s 
calculations of the Payroll Tax.  See “Employee” definition. 
d. It shall be the Employer’s responsibility, upon request from the City of Pittsburgh, to 
provide a list of sub-contractors which includes their name, address, Federal Employer 
Identification Number (EIN), contact person and their phone number. 
Historical Note - For the Years 2005-2015 the Payroll Tax for the First Quarter was 
due February 28 based on Payroll Expense In October, November and December of 
the prior calendar year. 
EFFECTIVE FOR 2016 AND THEREAFTER, THE PAYROLL TAX FOR THE FIRST 
QUARTER IS DUE ON MAY 31 BASED ON PAYROLL EXPENSE IN JANUARY, 
FEBRUARY, AND MARCH OF THAT YEAR. 
e. The Payroll Tax is to be paid as follows: 
The first quarterly return, which is due May 31 of the current year, shall be filed and the 
tax shall be paid based on the amount of Payroll Expense during the months of January, 
February, and March of the current year; the second quarterly return, which is due 
August 31 of the current year, shall be filed and the tax shall be paid based on the 
amount of Payroll Expense during the months of Ap ril, May, and June of the current 
year; the third quarterly return, which is due November 30 of the current year, shall be 
filed and the tax shall be paid based on the amount of Payroll Expense during the 
months of July, August, and September of the current year; the fourth quarterly return, 
which is due February 28 of the succeeding year, shall be filed and the tax shall be paid 
based on the amount of Payroll Expense during the months of October, November, and 
December of the current year. 
f. Any Employer, who discontinues Business or ceases operation before December 31 of 
the current tax year, shall within 10 days after discontinuing Business or ceasing 
operation, if not already filed and paid, file the return hereinabove required and pay the 
tax to the Treasurer. 
g. If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of six percent  per 
annum (6%) on the amount of said tax and an additional penalty of one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof during which the tax 
remains unpaid shall be added and collected.   Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 
6924.303(h). 
 
 
