PAYROLL TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE IV 
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 

SECTION 401 – POWERS AND DUTIES OF TREASURER (DIRECTOR) 
a. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to  collect and receive the taxes, fines, and penalties 
imposed by the City Code, Title II, Article VII, Chapter 258. It shall also be the duty of the 
Treasurer to keep a record showing the date of such receipt. 
b. The Treasurer is charged with the administration and enforcement of the provisions of the 
City Code, and is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and 
regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the 
City Code, including provisions for the reexamination and corrections of declarations and 
returns, and of payments alleged or found to be incorrect, or as to which an overpayment 
is claimed or found to have occurred, and to prescribe forms necessary for the 
administration of the City Code. 
c. The Treasurer is authorized to issue a ruling upon written request of a taxpayer. 
 
SECTION 402 – EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS OF TAXPAYERS AND 
EMPLOYERS 
a. Agents designated by the Treasurer are hereby authorized to examine the books, papers 
and records of any  Employer or supposed employer, or of any Taxpayer or supposed 
taxpayer, in order to verify the accuracy of any declaration or return, or if no declaration 
or return was filed, to ascertain the tax due. Every Employer or supposed employer, and 
every Taxpayer or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to give to the 
Treasurer, or to any agent designated by him/her, the means, facilities and opportunity for 
such examinations and investigations, as are hereby authorized.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 
53 P.S. § 6924.315; Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(c). 
b. If records are not available in the City of Pittsburgh to support the returns which were filed 
or which should have been filed, the Taxpayer will be required to make them available to 
the Treasurer either by producing them in a City of Pittsburgh location or by paying for the 
expenses incurred by the Treasurer in traveling to the place where the records are 
regularly kept. 
c. Any information gained by the Treasurer, by designated agents, or by any other official or 
agent of the City of Pittsburgh, as a result of any declarations, returns, investigations, 
hearings or verifications required or authorized by the City Code, shall be confidential 
except for official purposes and shall not be released except in accordance with a proper 
judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law.  Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. 
§ 8437. 
d. A Taxpayer shall have at least thirty ( 30) calendar days to respond to audit notices.  A 
Taxpayer may request a rea sonable extension of time in accordance with the Local 
Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8424(a). 
 
SECTION 403 – RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY THE TAXPAYER 
Taxpayers and Employers liable for the Payroll Tax are required to keep such records as will 
enable the filing of true and accurate returns of the tax and such records shall be preserved 
for a period of not less than three (3) years from the filing date or due date  whichever is later 
in order to enable the Treasurer or any agent designated by him to verify t he correctness of the declarations or returns filed. 
 
SECTION 404 – AUDITS AND TIME FOR ASSESSMENTS 
A Taxpayer has thirty (30) calendar days to respond to audit notices.  If additional time is 
necessary, the Taxpayer may request a reasonable extension of that time upon a showing of 
good cause.  53 Pa.C.S. § 8424(a). 
If, as a result of an examination conducted by the Treasurer, a return is found to be incorrect, 
the Treasurer is authorized to assess and collect any underpayments of the Payroll Tax. If no 
return has been filed and a tax is found to be due, the tax actually due may be assessed and 
collected with or without the formality of obtaining a return from the Taxpayer.  Deficiency 
assessments (i.e., where Taxpayer has filed a return but is found to owe additional tax) shall 
include taxes for up to three (3) years prior to the date when the deficiency is assessed. If the 
deficiency exceeds twenty-five percent or more of the tax originally self-reported, but no fraud 
is found, suit must be begun within six years.  Where no return was filed, or a fraudulent return 
was filed, there shall be no limit to the period of assessment.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. 
§ 6924.303(g). 
 
  
