PAYROLL TAX REGULATIONS 
ARTICLE V 
SUITS FOR TAX COLLECTIONS, VIOLATIONS, FINES, INTEREST & PENALTIES 

SECTION 501 – REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE 
The remedies provided in Section 502 or Section 505 are not mutually exclusive. The 
utilization by the Treasurer of one remedy does not preclude utilization of the other. 
Moreover, use of either or both of the remedies provided in these Sections does not preclude 
the use by the City of Pittsburgh of any other legal or administrative procedure which can bring 
about compliance by the taxpayer with the provisions of Chapter 258 of the Pittsburgh Code 
and these regulations. 
Any voluntary payment made by a Taxpayer, unless otherwise specified in writing, shall be 
applied first to tax, then to interest, then to penalty, then to any other fees or charges.  Local 
Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. § 8429. 
 
SECTION 502 – SUITS FOR RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAXES 
The Treasurer may sue in the name of the City of Pittsburgh, in law or in equity, for the recovery 
of those taxes due and unpaid under the provisions of the Payroll Tax, to compel the 
production of records or to enforce any other provisions of the law. 
 
SECTION 503 - LIMITATIONS 
a. The following periods of limitations shall apply to suits for collection of taxes.  Local Tax 
Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(g). 
1. When a return has been filed but no tax paid, any suit brought to  recover the tax 
due and unpaid shall be filed within three (3) years after the return was due or filed, 
whichever is later. Where no return was filed, there shall be no limit to file suit for 
the collection of taxes. 
2. In the case of a deficiency assessment , suit shall be filed within three (3) years 
after the assessment has been made. 
b. The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) shall not prevent the institution of a suit for the 
collection of any tax due or determined to be due in the following cases: 
1. When no return was filed, there is no limitation. 
2. When the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation. 
3. When there is an understatement of tax liability of twenty -five (25%) or more, and 
not due to fraud, suit must be begun within six (6) years. 
4. A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the due date. 
 SECTION 504 – PENALTY AND INTEREST 
a. If for any reason the Payroll Tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of six (6%) 
percent per annum on the amount of tax and a penalty of one (1%) percent per month for 
each month or fraction of a whole month during the period in which the tax remains unpaid 
shall be added to the tax.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(h). 
b. Penalty and Interest on Deficiency Assessment. 
On any additional tax determined to be due as a result of a deficiency assessment, penalty 
and interest will be assessed from the day the tax should have been paid to the date of 
payment. Penalty and interest is calculated as described above in the applicable portion 
of Section 504(a). 
c. Where suit is brought for the recovery of such tax, the person liable therefore shall, in  
addition, be liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein imposed. 
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(h). Once due and owing, penalty and interest 
become part of the tax and shall be collected as such. A person’s belief that no tax is due 
and owing, or the failure of any person to receive or obtain the forms required for making 
the returns required under the City Code is not a vali d defense to the imposition of 
penalties herein for violation.  
d. Good faith shall not be a defense to the imposition of penalty  and interest.  Penalty and 
interest may be abated only in accordance with  the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights, 53 
Pa.C.S. § 8428.   
 
SECTION 505 – FINES AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE 
PROVISIONS OF TITLE TWO, PITTSBURGH CODE 
 
a. Violations – No person shall: 
1. Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any declaration or file a return required under the 
City Code. 
2. Refuse to permit the Treasurer or his/her designee to examine the books, records 
or accounts of any business, taxable or otherwise, to determine liability. 
3. Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return or attempt to do anything to avoid 
full disclosure of the amount of tax due to avoid payment in whole or in part, of the 
Payroll Tax. 
4. Divulge information, which is confidential under Chapter 201.06 of the City Code. 
5. Fail to make any payment when it is due. 
b. Pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S.6924.303(i), in addition to any other 
penalties or enforcement proceedings provided for by ordinance for the collection and 
enforcement of taxes: 
1. Any employer who willfully makes any false or untrue statement on the employer’s 
return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and shall, upon 
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than two thousand dollars 
($2,000) or to a term of imprisonment of not more than two years, or both;   
2. Any employer who willfully fails or refuses to file a return required by this c hapter 
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall, upon conviction, be 
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or to a term of imprisonment of not more than one year, or both; and 
3. Any person who willfully fails or refuses to appear before the Treasurer or his agent 
in person with the Employer’s books, records or accounts for examination when 
required under the provisions of Title Two of the City Code to do so, or who willfully 
refuses to permit inspection of the books, records or accounts of any Employer in 
the person’s custody or control when the right to make such inspection by the 
Treasurer or his agent is requested, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, 
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than five hundred dollars 
($500) or to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.The fines 
and terms of imprisonment, imposed under this Section shall be in addition to any 
other relief granted to the C ity of Pittsburgh of a monetary nature under the 
provisions of this Article.  Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.303(i). 
4. Each and every day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense 
for which a fine may be imposed. 
 
 
