PARKING TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
§ 101.  AUTHORIZATION. 
 
Pursuant to “The Local Tax Enabling Act,” Act 511 of 1965, P.L.1257; 53 P.S. § 6924, and 
the City Code, Title II, Article I, Chapter 201.04, the Treasurer of the City of Pittsburgh is 
authorized to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce regulations pertaining to  the 
administration and enforcement of the Code. 
 
§ 102.  DEFINITIONS. 
 
The following words and phrases when used in these regulations shall have the meaning 
ascribed to them as they appear in Section 253.01 of the Pittsburgh Code, except where 
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.  When referring to Valet Parking Services, 
the following words and phrases when used in these regulations shal l have the meaning 
ascribed to them as they appear in Section 548.01 of the Pittsburgh Code, except where 
the context clearly indicates a different meaning. 
 
CONSIDERATION – the payment or compensation of any nature, received by the 
operator from or on behalf of the patron, upon an express or implied contract or under a 
lease or otherwise, whether or not separately stated, and whether paid in cash or credited 
to an account, for each transaction involving the parking or storing of a vehicle provided 
by the person on whose behalf the motor vehicle is parked or stored by some other 
person.  In the case of Taxable Valet Parking Services, consideration includes the 
payment of compensation of any nature, received by  the provider from or on behalf of the 
Valet Parking Services Patron, upon an express or implied contract, whether or not 
separately stated and whether paid in cash or credited to an account.  Consideration 
does not include the tax imposed and collected under Chapter 253 of the Pittsburgh 
Code. 
 
DWELLING UNIT – a building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy for residential 
purposes and having cooking facilities and sanitary facilities. 
 
GROSS COLLECTIONS – Total consideration paid by the patron plus collected parking 
taxes. 
 
MONTH – a calendar month. 
 
NON-RESIDENTIAL PARKING PLACE OR PARKING PLACE – any place within the 
City, whether wholly or partially enclosed or open, at which vehicles are parked or stored 
for any period of time in return for a consideration, not including: public streets, any 
parking area or garage to the extent that it is provided or leased to residents on the same 
or other premises and provided that the parking or storage of a vehicle by such resident is 
for use only in connection with, and as accessory to, the occupancy of a dwelling unit in 
the City; and any parking area or garage operated exclusively by an owner or lessee of a 
hotel, apartment hotel, tourist court or trailer park, to the extent that the parking area or 
garage is provided to guests or tenants of such hotel, tourist court or trailer park for no 
consideration. 
 OPERATOR – any person conducting the operation of a parking place or receiving the 
consideration for the parking or storage of vehicles at such parking places, including but 
not limited to, any governmental body, governmental subdivision, municipal corporation, 
public authority, non-profit corporation or any person operating as an agent of one of the 
aforementioned. This includes the leasing of land in which vehicles are parked and 
consideration is received. 
 
PATRON – any person entering into a transaction to park or store a motor vehicle at a 
non-residential parking place for any period of time for consideration, excluding any 
transaction involving Exempt Valet Parking Services. 
 
PERSON – any corporation, partnership, business trust, association, estate, trust, 
foundation or natural person. 
 
PROVIDER – any person supplying Taxable Valet Parking Services. 
 
RESIDENCE – any building designed and used for family living or sleeping purposes 
other than a hotel, apartment hotel, tourist court or trailer park; and any dwelling unit 
located in a hotel or apartment. 
 
TRANSACTION – the activity involved in the parking or storing of a motor vehicle at a 
non-residential parking place for a consideration excluding Exempt Valet Parking 
Services within the geographic boundaries of the City of Pittsburgh. 
 
TREASURER – the Director of the Department of Finance, his deputies, and their 
agents. The Deputy Director of Finance serves as City Treasurer. 
 
VALET PARKING SERVICES – for the purposes of these Parking Tax Regulations: 
  
Exempt Valet Parking Services refers to a service provided to accommodate patrons 
of any business establishment where a valet parking operator or attendant takes 
temporary custody of the patrons’ motor vehicle and moves, parks, or stores the 
vehicle in a parking facility that is owned by or leased exclusively to the establishment, 
and later return the vehicle to the patron of the establishment; where the parking facility 
is open only during the hours of the establishment’s operation and only to the patrons 
of that single establishment; and where the service charge is less than the prevailing 
parking rate for comparable public lots in the area.  
 
For the purposes of these Parking Tax Regulations, a valet service providing 
attendants who drive the patron’s vehicle from the entrance of an establishment and 
park the vehicle in a licensed, public facility, whether the facility is open to the public on a 
single fee transaction or a monthly fee basis or lease, and pass along the charge for 
parking directly to the patron whose vehicle they have taken, together with a service 
fee, shall not be liable for the parking tax but would be subject to other business taxes. 
 
Any parking services provided to a patron that do not meet the definition of Exempt Valet 
Parking Services shall be considered Taxable Valet Parking Services. For example: 
 
(a) For any parking service provided to a patron  by a valet , if the rate charged for this 
service is not lower than the prevailing parking rate for the area the service shall be considered Taxable Valet Parking Services and the transaction shall be subject to 
the parking tax. It will be assumed that a parking charge is being collected as part of 
the service charg e, and the parking tax shall be imposed, collected and remitted 
to the Treasurer based upon the prevailing parking rate in the area.   
 
(b) If the parking facility is used by multiple business establishments, or is open for use 
during hours when the business establishment otherwise is closed, the service shall 
be considered Taxable Valet Par king Services and the consideration paid by the 
patron shall be subject to tax. 
 
 
 
