PARKING TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 7: TAXPAYER REMEDIES 
 
§701.   TREASURER’S HEARINGS. 
 
Any taxpayer aggrieved by an assessment by the Treasurer shall, within ninety (90) 
days after the date of notice of the assessment, request a Treasurer’s Hearing 
on a form obtained from the Treasurer for that purpose. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8431. The 
Treasurer may on his/her own initiative cite a taxpayer for a hearing.  
  
(a) Any taxpayer who fails to request a Treasurer’s Hearing within a timely 
manner, waives the right to contest any element of the assessment, and 
that party’s failure to challenge the Treasurer’s adjudication will be 
construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety of the 
assessment. 
 
(b) The written petition for reassessment shall contain at minimum: 
 
(1) The taxpayer’s name, address, and daytime telephone number.  
(2) The taxpayer’s account and/or social security number.  
(3) A copy of the assessment notice the taxpayer received from the 
Finance Department.  
(4) A detailed explanation consisting of the reason or reaso ns the 
taxpayer disagrees with the assessment and any documentation 
necessary to support the taxpayer’s claims.  
(5) Taxpayer’s signature. 
 
(c) The completed petition should be mailed to: 
 
TREASURER HEARINGS  
TREASURER – CITY OF PITTSBURGH  
414 GRANT ST  
PITTSBURGH PA 15219-2476 
 
(d) Any taxpayer may request a Treasurer’s Hearing so that his tax refund 
request can be reviewed. 
 
(e) The Treasurer will abate any penalties and interest only in accordance with 
53 Pa.C.S. § 8428. 
 
(f) The Treasurer will issue its decision within 60 days of the receipt of the 
taxpayer’s complete and accurate petition form.   
 
 
§ 702.  APPEALS. 
Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Treasurer following a Treasurer’s 
Hearing may, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice of such decision, 
appeal the decision to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, in 
accordance with the Taxpayers Bill of Rights. 53 Pa.C.S. § 8434.  If no such appeal 
is timely filed, the aggrieved party waives his/her right to contest any element of 
the Treasurer’s adjudication, and that party’s failure to challenge the same will be construed as an admission by that party as to the propriety of the 
Treasurer’s decision. No hearing or appeal will operate to suspend the accrual of 
penalty and interest from the date the tax was due to the date it is actually paid. 
§ 703.  REFUNDS. 
(a) Requests for refunds. An operator that has overpaid Parking Taxes to the 
City of Pittsburgh due to an error reporting monthly collections may file a 
written request with the Department of Finance for a refund or a credit of 
the overpaid tax. The operator shall clearly show the parking collections for 
the month in which the error occurred, the total amount of tax properly due 
for the report period in which the overpayment was made, and the 
amount of tax collected and paid to the City of Pittsburgh for the 
applicable period, including the total amount of and reason for the 
overpayment. An amended Parking Tax return may be required for the 
adjusted report period.  All refunds shall be processed consistently with the 
Local Tax Enabling Act and the Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S § 
8426 
 
(1) A request for a refund or a credit shall be made within three (3) years 
of the due date for filing the report or one (1) year after actual 
payment of the tax, whichever is later; 
 
(2) If no  report is required, the request shall be made within three (3) 
years after the due date for payment of the tax or within one (1) year 
after actual payment of the tax, whichever is later; 
(3) For amounts paid as a result of a notice asserting or informing a 
taxpayer of an underpayment, a written request for a refund shall be 
filed with the Department of Finance within one (1) year of the date of 
the payment. 
 
(4) A tax return filed  by the taxpayer with  the Department of Finance 
showing an overpayment of tax shall be deemed to be a written 
request for a cash refund unless otherwise indicated on the tax return. 
 
(b) Proof of receipt.  If any claim of overpayment is made to the City of 
Pittsburgh after reported Parking Tax was collected from but subsequently 
refunded to any patron; for example, the refunding of any portion of a prepaid 
lease, the operator must be able to provide proof that the patron received the 
refund and that therefund amount  was properly due and calculated.  No 
refund or credit shall be claimed by an operator if overpaid amounts are not 
or cannot be refunded to the patrons from whom they  were originally 
collected. 
