PARKING TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 3: IMPOSITION OF TAX 

§ 301.  RATE OF TAX. 
 
(a) Rate of tax. A tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon each 
parking transaction by a patron of a non-residential parking place at the rate of 
thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) percent for all transactions occurring on or after 
January 1, 2009. The rate of tax may be changed for any tax year by the 
legislative actions of the Mayor and City Council.  However, the tax rate may not 
exceed the rate permitted by the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and 
Recovery Act, 53 P.S. § 895.902. 
 
(b) Calculation of tax. The following method must be used to compute the tax, 
whether the tax total is taken from individual cash register tapes or where 
individual tax collections are not kept for each ticket:  
 
Simplified Calculation.  For ease of administration and tax collection,  the tax 
return presumes that gross collections include both total consideration from the 
patron and collected parking tax  from the patron . Under this simplified 
calculation the applicable tax rates is 27.273% times gross collections. 
 
 The rate of tax is defined above and will be applied as follows: 
 
Parking Fee X Tax Rate = Parking Tax Due 
 
For example, where the tax rate is 37.5%: 
 
$1,000.00 X 37.5% = $375.00 
$1,550.00 X 37.5% = $581.25 
 
(c) Calculation of total payment. The following method shall be used to compute 
the total payment collected by the operator and paid by the patron, whether the tax 
total is taken from individual cash register tapes or where individual collections are 
not kept for each ticket. The rate of tax is defined above and will be applied as 
follows: 
 
Parking Fee + Parking Tax = Total Payment 
 
For example, where the tax rate is 37.5%: 
$1,000.00 + $375.00 = $1,375.00 
$1,550.00 + $581.25 = $2,131.25 
 
(d) Calculation of total payment where there is a surcharge. The following method 
shall be used to compute the total payment collected by the operator and paid by 
the patron when a surcharge is imposed, whether the tax total is taken from 
individual cash register tapes or where individual collections are not kept for each 
ticket. The parking tax will be applied to the sum of the base parking fee and the 
surcharge. The rate of tax is defined above and will be applied as follows: 
 (Base Fee + Surcharge)  + Tax Rate(Base Fee + Surcharge) = Total Payment 
 
For example, where the tax rate is 37.5% and the surcharge is $10: 
($1,000.00 + $10.00) + $378.75 = $1,388.75 
($1,550.00 + $10.00) + $585.00 = $2,145.00 
 
§ 302.  COLLECTION OF TAX. 
 
(a) Collection by operator or provider.  A tax for general revenue purposes is imposed 
upon each patron entering into a parking transaction, at the specified rate of  the 
consideration for each such transaction, which tax shall be collected by the operator 
from the patron, and shall be paid over to the Treasurer as set forth in Chapter 253 
of the Pittsburgh Code. 
 
(b) Creation of a trust. All taxes collected by any operator in accordance  with the 
Pittsburgh Code, Chapter 253 shall constitute a trust fund for the benefit of the City 
and such trust shall be enforceable against the operator and any person receiving 
any part of such fund without consideration, or with knowledge that the operator is 
committing a breach of trust; provided however, that any person receiving payment 
of a lawful obligation of the operator from such fund shall be presumed to have 
received the same in good faith and without any knowledge of the breach of trust. 
 
(c) Liability of the  operator.  Any operator or provider required under the Pittsburgh  
Code, Chapter 253 to collect tax from a patron, who shall fail to collect the tax, shall 
be liable for the tax upon the full consideration received from the patron or on his/her 
behalf. 
 
§ 303.  RETURN FORMS. 
 
(a) Each operator, on forms prescribed by the Treasurer, shall file by the fifteenth day 
of each month, returns for the preceding month showing the consideration received 
with respect to each parking place during the preceding month together with the 
amount of tax due and collected thereon. Any operator with more than one parking 
place shall file a separate return for each individual parking place. At the time of 
filing the return, the operator shall pay to the Treasurer all tax due and collected for 
the period to which the return applies. 
 
(b) Information required. Operators shall provide all information as required to 
complete the return and the Pittsburgh Parking Tax Daily Report, as prescribed by 
the Treasurer, including but not limited to, the following information: 
 
(1) Total consideration received for each category of parking.  Categories should 
include, but are not limited to, hourly, daily, evening, event, weekly, 
monthly, lease and prepaid amounts; 
 
(2) Beginning and ending ticket numbers and serial numbers for leases for each 
category shall be indicated beside the day of reported activity; and 
 
(3) The amount of tax due.  
(c) Missing Tickets. Whenever any tickets or ticket stubs issued during the 
preceding month are missing or unaccounted for at the time of filing the return the 
operator must report on a form prescribed by the Treasurer, the number of 
missing or unaccounted for tickets from the preceding month and shall pay to the 
Treasurer, by the fifteenth day of the subsequent month, a fee equal to the 
maximum daily rate for each ticket that is missing or unaccounted for from the 
preceding month. 
 
(d) Adjustments. All adjustments must include a full, detailed explanation showing 
the adjusted amounts, the reason for the adjustment, the category of parking, and 
the period in which the collections were originally reported. The explanation must 
include a clear indication of the amount of any Parking Tax collected from the 
patron and proof the Tax was subsequently refunded to the patron. An amended 
return for the adjusted period may be required. 
(e) Forms for returns may be obtained from, and shall be filed with: TREASURER, CITY 
OF PITTSBURGH 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE 414 GRANT ST RM 206 
PITTSBURGH PA 15219 
 
(f) Failure to obtain or receive the necessary forms will not excuse the agent for 
failure to file a return and pay the tax due and collected in a timely manner. 
 
(g) Signature required. Where an operator is an individual, he must personally sign 
the return; if a partnership or association, a signature of one general partner or 
member is required; if a corporation, the return must be signed by the officer of the 
corporation authorized to file tax returns. 
 
(h) If an operator has more than one parking lot or garage, each place of 
operation must be registered with the Department of Finance, Parking Tax 
Division, and a return for each individual place of operation is required to be filed 
with the data to each, separately reported for every month and part thereof of 
said activity. 
 
(i) Failure to complete the forms as required. A return will not be considered filed 
unless the operator complies with all of the above provisions pertaining to filing of 
returns and includes all of the information requested on the prescribed forms. Any 
return not complying with all of the requirements prescribed by this Chapter will be 
considered a non-compliance violation and deemed incomplete. 
 
§ 304. PAYMENT OF TAX. 
 
Each operator, on forms prescribed by the Treasurer, shall file by the fifteenth day of each 
month, returns for the preceding month’s transactions and shall include the payment of 
the tax due and collected. Checks shall be made payable to: TREASURER, CITY OF 
PITTSBURGH. Cash payments MUST be made to the Financial Control office located on 
the first floor of the City County Building along with the appropriate tax reporting documents. 
 
§ 305.  ACCEPTANCE OF TAX RETURN. 
 
(a) Acceptance of  the return filed by the operator/agent and/or negotiation by the 
Treasurer of the payment tendered therewith does not constitute a final acceptance 
by the Treasurer of the accuracy or completeness of the self- assessed return and 
tax payment. The Treasurer may also elect to treat any such filing and/or payment 
as a partial disposition of the operator/agent’s liability. 
 
(b) The Treasurer, or any agent designated by him/her, reserves the right to make spot 
checks of returns filed, to make such corrections as appear necessary upon the face 
of the return, to submit additional billings or request additional information, and to 
make refunds or credits based on the self-assessed returns without accepting as 
final any document or payment arising from such cursory examination. 
 
(c) All returns filed, payments negotiated, credits applied or refunds remitted are  
conditional. Acceptance is final only after a duly approved audit or by operation of 
law. 
