PARKING TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 4:  RECORDS AND COMPLIANCE 
 
§ 401. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 
 
(a) Information required. In general, each operator shall maintain, separately with 
respect to each parking place, complete and accurate records of all transactions, 
reflecting the total amount of consideration received from all transactions and the 
total amount of tax collected on the basis of such consideration. Records to be 
kept shall consist of, but are not limited to: 
 
(1) License for current period; 
 
(2) Maximum number of vehicles for each parking place; 
 
(3) Rates for each category of transaction shall appear on the registration form 
and the operator shall  provide the Treasurer written  notification of  any 
changes in such rates by way of written notification; 
(4) Part of each serial numbered ticket used at each parking place issued to 
each vehicle to show parking period and time charges thereof and copies of 
all leases or contracts or agreements reserving parking spaces; 
(5) Number and serial numbers of parking tickets or contracts on hand when 
each parking facility and/or new facility operator is registered to do business 
and at the beginning of each month of operation. This shall include complete 
and accurate records including copies of the printer’s manifest of tickets 
purchased for or assigned for use in each parking place; 
(6) Number and serial numbers of leases or contracts on hand when each 
parking facility and/or new facility operator is registered to do business and 
at the beginning of each month of operation. This shall include complete 
and accurate records including copies of the printer’s manifest of all leases 
or contracts purchased for or assigned for use in each parking place. 
(7) In any case where unused tickets, leases or contracts have become 
obsolete or discontinued, they shall be reported and then destroyed with 
permission and under the supervision of the Treasurer; 
(8) Where meters are used, accurate records of all money collected at each 
meter must be kept; 
 
(9) A monthly summary showing the starting and ending ticket numbers for 
each series, the number of tickets sold at each representative price and the 
amount of tax collected; 
 
(10) Exemptions, if any; and 
 
(11) Detailed drawings, such as a plot plan, shall be shown for each parking facility 
on the reverse side of the registration form and any alterations made to said 
locations shall be provided to the Treasurer by way of a revised draft. 
 (b) Record Retention. All books, records, daily record sheets and ticket stubs must 
be retained by the operator of a parking facility for a period of five (5) years 
subsequent to the year of the transaction. This requirement will apply to all cases 
unless advance written permission to destroy such data has been obtained from 
the Treasurer. 
 
§ 402. EVIDENCE OF PARKING TRANSACTIONS. 
 
Every vehicle in a parking place will display evidence of the parking transaction, except as 
specifically described below: 
 
(a) Manually issued tickets. 
 
(1) Tickets must be numbered, dated, and issued in serial number sequence. 
Numbers on additional ticket purchases will be continued sequentially. Written 
authorization by the Treasurer shall  be required to change the numerical 
sequence or series of any ticket. 
 
(2) Where an operator conducts business at more than one location, a separate 
set of tickets will be issued at each location. 
 
(3) When a flat rate is charged for parking, a separate set of tickets will be issued 
for each rate. 
 
(4) If a  space is  reserved on a lease or contracted basis the serial number of  
such lease or contract will be evident on the vehicle which corresponds with 
the signed lease  or contract number. This sticker/permit/placard shall be 
approved by the Treasurer.  No tickets shall be issued for lease customers. 
Leases shall be issued in serial number order. 
 
(b) Mechanically issued tickets. A parking facility which uses and maintains a 
mechanical device for counting and registering all vehicles entering or leaving the 
facility on a meter or meters and which device is activated by the vehicle in such a 
way as to ensure a record of each vehicle, is not required to display evidence of 
the parking transaction on each vehicle where the following requirements are met: 
(1) Where the parking rate is measured by units of time: 
 
(a) Tickets shall be issued to all patrons in serial number sequence 
showing the date and time of entry; 
 
(b) Tickets shall be arranged so that part of each ticket  showing the 
parking period and charge is retained as part of the operator’s records; 
 
(c) The ticket ejector shall  be synchronized with the registering and 
counting device; and 
(d) The counting device or meter must register every vehicle without 
exception and no part or unit of the device may be rendered 
inoperative by switch, button or other means. (2) Where space is reserved on a lease or contract basis: 
(a) The serial number of such lease or contract must be evident on the 
vehicle which corresponds with the signed lease or contract number. 
No tickets are to be issued for lease customers; 
 
(b) This sticker/permit/placard to be affixed to each vehicle shall be 
approved by the Treasurer; and 
 
(c) Leases are to be issued in serial number order. 
 
(3) Mechanical or electro-mechanical devices or methods for counting, 
registering and recording parking transaction information, other than as 
specifically described in these regulations, shall be approved by the 
Treasurer and the Licensing Officer. 
 
(c) Parking meters. A parking facility which uses parking meters activated by a coin 
or token shall not be required to display evidence of the parking transaction on 
each vehicle. Clear detailed logs and records of all money collected from each 
meter shall be kept by the operator. 
(d) Free parking for employees. If no consideration is received for free parking for 
employees, a list of each employee’s name, job title and license plate number shall 
be maintained. This list shall be maintained for all free parking at a paid parking 
facility. 
 
(e) Other methods. Methods for counting, registering and recording parking 
transaction information, other than as specifically in these regulations, shall be 
approved by the Treasurer and the Licensing Officer.  Written  authorization of the 
Treasurer shall be required to change or alter the numerical sequence of any 
tickets. 
§ 403. REVENUE CONTROL EQUIPMENT. 
(a) Pursuant to City Code, Title Seven, Article VII, Section 763.03 (g), the owner or 
operator of a non-residential parking place that has consistently underreported 
gross revenues and tax to the Treasurer may be required, as a condition for 
licensing, to install an electro-mechanical device which monitors and counts the 
number of vehicles admitted to and leaving from a non-residential parking place. 
 
(b) Underreporting. An owner or operator may be deemed to be consistently 
underreporting gross revenue and tax for, but limited to, any of the following 
reasons: 
 
(1) Underreporting or failure to report gross revenue to the Treasurer; 
 
(2) Underreporting or failure to report the number of cars parked in the parking 
place and/or the maximum number of cars that could be parked in the 
parking place; 
 
(3) Underreporting or failure to report the number of tickets issued to patrons; (4) Underreporting or failure to report the numbers on tickets issued to patrons; 
 
(5) Failing to issue tickets, tags, or lease tags; 
 
(6) Underreporting or failure to report hours of operation; 
 
(7) Underreporting or failure to report duration of any specific parking instance; 
or 
 
(8) Underreporting or failure to report duration of leases. 
 
(c) Types of revenue control equipment. If, as a condition of licensing, an operator 
is required to install revenue control equipment, the equipment shall meet one of 
the following specifications: 
 
(1) Type A.  Type A shall be of the type that has entrance and exit gate arms; 
synchronized ticket dispenser; fee computer inclusive  of printer and fee 
indicator; and counters. This equipment shall have the capability of recording 
the date and time that a vehicle enters and leaves a non- residential parking 
place and the amount  of consideration and parking tax collected by an 
operator, and shall meet the specifications of the License Officer. 
 
(2) Type B. Type B shall be of the type that counts every vehicle that enters and 
leaves a non-residential parking lot  and shall include a count module and 
computer; and shall meet the specifications of the License Officer. 
§ 404. POSTING OF RATES. 
Every operator shall post and maintain in a conspicuous place, at each entrance, a sign 
printed in letters of such uniform size and character as to be easily read by prospective 
customers, showing the operator’s name, lot address, operator’s license number, and a 
schedule of rates. The schedule of rates must include the rates to be charged on an 
hourly, daily, Sunday, holiday, event and special bases, and weekly, monthly and yearly 
leases, which corresponds to those rates stated in the operator’s application for a parking 
license.  The schedule of rates must be posted in one of the formats listed below: 
 
Format A. A complete schedule listing the category, total charge to the patron with the 
parking tax included: 
 
CATEGORY FEE 
1 Hour $1.38 
2 Hours $2.75 
3 Hours $4.13 
All Day Parking $6.19 
Special Events $6.88 
Weekly Leases $27.50 
Monthly Leases $89.38 
Annual Leases $825.00 Format B. A complete schedule listing the category, parking fee, parking tax, and the 
total charge to the patron: 
 
CATEGORY FEE + TAX = TOTAL 
1 Hour $1.00  $0.38  $1.38 
2 Hours $2.00  $0.75  $2.75 
3 Hours $3.00  $1.13  $4.13 
All Day Parking $4.50  $1.69  $6.19 
Special Events $5.00  $1.88  $6.88 
Weekly Leases $20.00  $7.50  $27.50 
Monthly Leases $65.00  $24.38  $89.38 
Annual Leases $600.00  $225.00  $825.00 
