ARTICLE 5: VIOLATIONS
 
 
§ 501.  NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE. 
 
The remedies provided in this Article are not mutually exclusive.  The 
utilization by the Treasurer of one or more remedies does not preclude the 
utilization of another.  Moreover, use of the aforementioned remedies does 
not preclude the City’s use of any other legal or administrative procedure 
which can bring about compliance with the provision of the Code and these 
Regulations.
 
 
§ 502.  PENALTIES. 
 12 
 
(a) If for any reason the usage fee is not paid when due, a penalty at the 
rate of one (1) percent per month on the amount of the usage fee will 
be added, during the time the usage fee goes unpaid but the amount 
shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) in the aggregate.   
 
(b) On any additional usage fee determined to be due as a result of a 
deficiency notice, penalty will be assessed from the day the usage 
fee should have been paid to the date of payment.  Penalty is 
calculated as described above in Section 502(a).  
 
 
(c) Where suit is brought for the recovery of the usage fee, the Person 
liable therefore shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection 
and the penalties herein imposed.    A Person’s belief that no usage 
fee is due and owing, or the failure of any such Person to receive or 
obtain the forms required for making the returns required by the Code 
is not a valid defense to the imposition of penalties for violation  
herein.  Good faith shall not be a defense to the imposition of penalty.
 
 
 
 
§ 503.  VIOLATIONS AND FINES. 
 
(a) Violations.  No Person shall: 
 
(1) Fail, neglect or refuse to make any declaration or file a return 
as required under these Regulations; 
 
 
(2) Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay or deduct in part or in whole the 
Usage Fee when it is due as required by these Regulations; 
 
(3) Refuse to keep or supply to the Treasurer books, records, or 
accounts of any business, taxable or otherwise, to determine 
liability as required by these Regulations;
 
 
(4) Make any incomplete, false, or fraudulent return, or to attempt 
to avoid full disclosure of the amount of the usage fee due, or to 
avoid payment in part or in whole of the usage fee; or
 
 
(5) Divulge information which is confidential under Chapter 201.6 
of the Code. 
 13 
 
  
(b) Fines.  Pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended, in 
addition to any other penalties or enforcement of fees: 
 
(1) Any Qualified Managing Entity required to collect, account for, 
and remit the Usage Fee who willfully fails to collect or truthfully 
account for and remit the Usage Fee to the City  commits a 
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a 
fine not exceeding $25,000.00 or to imprisonment not 
exceeding two (6) months, or both; 
 
(2) Any Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party 
who negligently or willfully refuses to file a Usage Fee return as 
required by these Regulations shall, upon conviction, be 
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars 
($1,000) and/or to a term of imprisonment of not more than six 
(6) months;
 
 
(3) Any Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party 
who negligently or willfully makes any false or untrue statement 
on the Usage Fee return shall upon conviction, be sentenced to 
pay a fine of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000) 
and/or a term of imprisonment of not more than six (6) months;  
 
(4) Any Qualified Managing Entity or Nonresident Contracting Party 
who negligently or willfully fails to remit the entire amount of the 
usage fee, as determined and required by these regulations, 
shall upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more 
than two thousand dollars ($2,000) and/or to a term of not more 
than six (6) months; 
 
(5) Any Person who willfully fails or refuses to appear before the 
Treasurer in person with the requested books, records, 
accounts, or other materials when required by the Code, or who 
willfully refuses to permit inspection by the Treasurer of those 
books, records, accounts, or other materials in the Person’s 
custody or control when required by the Code, shall, upon 
conviction be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than five 
hundred dollars ($500) and costs for each offense, and in 14 
 
default of payment thereof may be imprisoned for not more than 
fifty (50) days; 
 
(6) The fines and terms of imprisonment imposed under this 
Section shall be in addition to any other relief granted to the 
City of a monetary nature under the provisions of these 
Regulations;
 
 
(7) Each and every day that the violation continues shall constitute 
a separate offense for which a fine can be imposed; 
 
(8) Anyone found to be guilty of violations delineated in Section 
503(b) may be denied future use of the Publicly Funded 
Facility.
 
 
§ 504.  SUITS. 
 
The Treasurer may sue in the name of the City, in law or in equity, for the 
recovery of those fees due and unpaid under the provisions of the usage 
fee, to compel the production of records, or to enforce any other provisions 
of the law.
 
 
 
 
§ 505.  LIMITATIONS ON ENFORCEMENT. 
 
(a) The following periods of limitation shall apply to suits for collection of 
usage fees: 
   
   (1) When a return has been filed but no usage fee paid, any suit 
brought to recover the usage fee due and unpaid shall be filed 
within three (3) years after the return was due or filed, 
whichever is later.  Where no return was filed, there shall be no 
limit to file suit for the collection of fees;
 
 
(b) The limitations set forth in paragraph (a) shall not prevent the filing of 
a suit for the collection of any usage fee due or determined to be due 
in the following cases: 
 
 (1) Where no return was filed, there is no limitation; 
 
 (2) Where the return is fraudulent, there is no limitation; 
 
 (3) When there is an understatement of liability of twenty-five (25) 
percent or more, and not due to fraud, the suit shall be filed 
within six (6) years after the return was due or filed, whichever 
is later. 
 
(c) A return filed before the due date is deemed to be filed on the due 
date.
 
 
 

